IC 20-38 ARTICLE 38. EDUCATIONAL COMPACTS 
IC 20-38-1 Chapter 1. Interstate Agreement of Qualifications of Educational Personnel 
IC 20-38-1-1 Contents of interstate agreement 
Sec. 1. The following interstate agreement on qualification of educational personnel is enacted into law and entered into by this state with all other states legally joining the interstate agreement in substantially the following form: 
INTERSTATE AGREEMENT ON 
QUALIFICATION OF EDUCATIONAL PERSONNEL 
Article 1 ) Purpose, Findings, and Policy 

1. 
The states party to this agreement, desiring by common action to improve their respective school systems by utilizing the teacher or other professional educational person wherever educated, declare that it is the policy of each of them, on the basis of cooperation with one another, to take advantage of the preparation and experience of such persons wherever gained, thereby serving the best interests of society, of education, and of the teaching profession. It is the purpose of this agreement to provide for the development and execution of such programs of cooperation as will facilitate the movement of teachers and other professional educational personnel among the states party to it, and to authorize specific interstate educational personnel contracts to achieve that end. 

2. 
The party states find that included in the large movement of population among all sections of the nation are many qualified educational personnel who move for family and other personal reasons but who are hindered in using their professional skill and experience in their new locations. Variations from state to state in requirements for qualifying educational personnel discourage such personnel from taking the steps necessary to qualify in other states. As a consequence, a significant number of professionally prepared and experienced educators is lost to our school systems. Facilitating the employment of qualified educational personnel, without reference to their states of origin, can increase the available educational resources. Participation in this compact can increase the availability of educational manpower. All contracts shall be subject to approval of the Indiana state board of education. 


Article 2 ) Definitions As used in this agreement and contracts made pursuant to it, unless the context clearly requires otherwise: 
1. 
"Educational personnel" means persons who must meet requirements pursuant to state law as a condition of employment in educational programs. 

2. 
"Designated state official" means the education official of a state selected by that state to negotiate and enter into, on behalf of the individual's state, contracts pursuant to this agreement. 

3.
 "Accept", or any variant thereof, means to recognize and give effect to one (1) or more determinations of another state relating to the qualifications of educational personnel in lieu of making or requiring a like determination that would otherwise be required by or pursuant to the laws of a receiving state. 

4. 
"State" means a state, territory, or possession of the United States; the District of Columbia; or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. 

5. 
"Originating state" means a state (and the subdivision thereof, if any) whose determination that certain educational personnel are qualified to be employed for specific duties in schools is acceptable in accordance with the terms of a contract made pursuant to Article 


3. 
6. "Receiving state" means a state (and the subdivisions thereof) which accept educational personnel in accordance with the terms of a contract made pursuant to Article 3. 
Article 3 ) Interstate Educational Personnel Contracts 
1. The designated state official of a party state may make one (1) or more contracts on behalf of the official's state with one (1) or more other party states providing for the acceptance of educational personnel. Any such contract for the period of its duration shall be applicable to and binding on the states whose designated state officials enter into it, and the subdivisions of those states, with the same force and effect as if incorporated in this agreement. A designated state official may enter into a contract pursuant to this article only with states in which the official finds that there are programs of education, certification standards, or other acceptable qualifications that assure preparation or qualification of educational personnel on a basis sufficiently comparable, even though not identical to that prevailing in the official's own state. 
2. Any such contract shall provide for: 
(a) Its duration. 
(b) 
The criteria to be applied by an originating state in qualifying educational personnel for acceptance by a receiving state. 

(c) 
Such waivers, substitutions, and conditional acceptances as shall aid the practical effectuation of the contract without sacrifice of basic educational standards. 


(d) Any other necessary matters. 
3. 
No contract made pursuant to this agreement shall be for a term longer than five (5) years, but any such contract may be renewed for like or lesser periods. 

4. 
Any contract dealing with acceptance of educational personnel on the basis of their having completed an educational program shall specify the earliest date or dates on which originating state approval of the program or programs involved can have occurred. No contract 

made pursuant to this agreement shall require acceptance by a receiving state of any persons qualified because of successful completion of a program before January 1, 1954. 

5. 
The certification or other acceptance of a person who has been accepted pursuant to the terms of a contract shall not be revoked or otherwise impaired because the contract has expired or been terminated. However, any certificate or other qualifying document may be revoked or suspended on any ground which would be sufficient for revocation or suspension of a certificate or other qualifying document initially granted or approved in the receiving state. 

6. 
A contract committee composed of the designated state officials of the contracting states or their representatives shall keep the contract under continuous review, study means of improving its administration, and report no less frequently than once a year to the heads of the appropriate education agencies of the contracting states. 


Article 4 ) Approved and Accepted Programs 
1. 
Nothing in this agreement shall be construed to repeal or otherwise modify any law or regulation of a party state relating to the approval of programs of educational preparation having effect solely on the qualification of educational personnel within that state. 

2. 
To the extent that contracts made pursuant to this agreement deal with the educational requirements for the proper qualification of educational personnel acceptance of a program of educational preparation shall be in accordance with such procedures and requirements as may be provided in the applicable contract. 


Article 5 ) Interstate Cooperation 
The party states agree that: 

1. 
They will, so far as practicable, prefer the making of multilateral contracts pursuant to Article 3 of this agreement. 

2. 
They will facilitate and strengthen cooperation in interstate certification and other elements of educational personnel qualification and for this purpose shall cooperate with agencies, organizations, and associations interested in certification and other elements of educational personnel qualification. 


Article 6 ) Agreement Evaluation 
The designated state officials of any party state may meet from time to time as a group to evaluate progress under the agreement and to formulate recommendations for changes. 
Article 7 ) Other Arrangements 
Nothing in this agreement shall be construed to prevent or inhibit other arrangements or practices of any party state or states to facilitate the interchange of educational personnel. 
Article 8 ) Effect and Withdrawal 
1. This agreement shall become effective when enacted into law by two (2) states. Thereafter it shall become effective as to any state upon its enactment of this agreement. 
2. Any party state may withdraw from this agreement by enacting a statute repealing the same, but no such withdrawal shall take effect until one (1) year after the governor of the withdrawing state has given notice in writing of the withdrawal to the governors of all other party states. 
3. No withdrawal shall relieve the withdrawing state of any obligation imposed upon it by a contract to which it is a party. The duration of contracts and the methods and conditions of withdrawal therefrom shall be those specified in their terms. 
Article 9 ) Construction and Severability 
This agreement shall be liberally construed so as to effectuate the purposes thereof. The provisions of this agreement shall be severable and if any phrase, clause, sentence, or provision of this agreement is declared to be contrary to the constitution of any state or of the United States, or the application thereof to any government, agency, person, or circumstance is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this agreement and the applicability thereof to any government, agency, person, or circumstance shall not be affected thereby. If this agreement shall be held contrary to the constitution of any state participating therein, the agreement shall remain in full force and effect as to the state affected as to all severable matters. As added by P.L.1-2005, SEC.22. 

IC 20-38-1-2 Authorized person to negotiate and enter contracts; rules 
Sec. 2. (a) The state superintendent, or a person authorized to act in behalf of the state superintendent, is the education official selected by this state to negotiate and enter into, on behalf of this state, contracts under the interstate agreement set forth in section 1 of this chapter. 
(b) 
The designated education official, acting jointly with similar officers of other party states, may adopt rules to carry out more effectively the terms of the interstate agreement. 

(c) 
The designated education official is authorized, empowered, and directed to cooperate with all departments, agencies, and officers of state government and its subdivisions in facilitating the proper administration of the following: 

(1) 
The interstate agreement. 

(2) 
A supplementary agreement entered into by this state under the interstate agreement. 




As added by P.L.1-2005, SEC.22. 

IC 20-38-2 Chapter 2. Compact for Education 
IC 20-38-2-1 Contents of compact for education 
Sec. 1. The following compact for education, which has been negotiated by the representatives of the fifty (50) states, is approved, ratified, adopted, enacted into law, and entered into by the state as a party and a signatory state, namely: 
COMPACT FOR EDUCATION 
ARTICLE 1. 
PURPOSE AND POLICY. 

A. It is the purpose of this compact to: 
1. 
Establish and maintain close cooperation and understanding among executive, legislative, professional educational, and lay leadership on a nationwide basis at the state and local levels. 

2. 
Provide a forum for the discussion, development,crystallization and recommendation of public policy alternatives in the field of education. 

3. 
Provide a clearinghouse of information on matters relating to educational problems and how they are being met in different places throughout the nation, so that the executive and legislative branches of state government and of local communities may have ready access to the experience and record of the entire country, and so that both lay and professional groups in the fields of education may have additional avenues for the sharing of experience and the interchange of ideas in the formation of public policy in education. 

4. 
Facilitate the improvement of state and local educational systems so that all of them will be able to meet adequate and desirable goals in a society which requires continuous qualitative and quantitative advance in educational opportunities, methods and facilities. 


B. It is the policy of this compact to encourage and promote local and state initiative in the development, maintenance, improvement, and administration of educational systems and institutions in a manner which will accord with the needs and advantages of diversity among localities and states. 
C. The party states recognize that each of them has an interest in the quality and quantity of education furnished in each of the other states, as well as in the excellence of its own educational systems and institutions, because of the highly mobile character of individuals within the nation, and because the products and services contributing to the health, welfare, and economic advancement of each state are supplied in significant part by persons educated in other states. 
ARTICLE 2. STATE DEFINED. As used in this compact, "state" means a state, territory or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, or the 
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. ARTICLE 3. THE COMMISSION. 
A. The education commission of the states, hereinafter called "the commission," is established. The commission shall consist of seven 
(7) 
members representing each party state. One (1) of such members shall be the governor; two (2) shall be members of the state legislature selected by its respective houses and serving in such manner as the legislature may determine; and four (4) shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the governor, unless the laws of the state otherwise provide. If the laws of a state prevent legislators from serving on the commission, six (6) members shall be appointed and serve at the pleasure of the governor, unless the laws of the state otherwise provide. In addition to any other principles or requirements which a state may establish for the appointment and service of its members of the commission, the guiding principle for the composition of the membership on the commission for each party state shall be that the members representing such state shall by virtue of their training, experience, knowledge or affiliations be in a position collectively to reflect broadly the interests of the state government, higher education, the state education system, local education, lay and professional, public and nonpublic educational leadership. Of those appointees, one (1) shall be the head of a state agency or institution, designated by the governor, having responsibility for one (1) or more programs of public education. In addition to the members of the commission representing the party states, there may be not to exceed ten (10) nonvoting commissioners selected by the steering committee for terms of one (1) year. Such commissioners shall represent leading national organizations of professional educators or persons concerned with educational administration. 

B. 
The members of the commission shall be entitled to one (1) vote each on the commission. No action of the commission shall be binding unless taken at a meeting at which a majority of the total number of votes on the commission are cast in favor thereof. Action of the commission shall be only at a meeting at which a majority of the commissioners are present. The commission shall meet at least once a year. In its bylaws, and subject to such directions and limitations as may be contained therein, the commission may delegate the exercise of any of its powers to the steering committee or the executive director, except for the power to approve budgets or requests for appropriations, and power to make policy recommendations pursuant to Article 4 and adoption of the annual report pursuant to Article 3(J). 

C. The commission shall have a seal. 

D. 
The commission shall elect annually, from among its members, a chairman, who shall be a governor, a vice chairman, and a treasurer. The commission shall provide for the appointment of an 


executive director. Such executive director shall serve at the pleasure of the commission, and together with the treasurer and such other personnel as the commission may deem appropriate shall be bonded in such amount as the commission shall determine. The executive director shall be secretary. 
E. Irrespective of the civil service, personnel, or other merit system laws of any of the party states, the executive director subject to the approval of the steering committee shall appoint, remove or discharge such personnel as may be necessary for the performance of the functions of the commission, and shall fix the duties and compensation of such personnel. The commission in its bylaws shall provide for the personnel policies and programs of the commission. 
F. The commission may borrow, accept, or contract for the services of personnel from any party jurisdiction, the United States, or any subdivision or agency of the aforementioned governments, or from any agency of two (2) or more of the party jurisdictions or their subdivisions. 
G. The commission may accept for any of its purposes and functions under this compact any and all donations, and grants of money, equipment, supplies, materials, and services, conditional or otherwise, from any state, the United States, or any other governmental agency, or from any person, firm, association, foundation, limited liability company, or corporation, and may receive, utilize and dispose of the same. Any donation or grant accepted by the commission pursuant to this paragraph or services borrowed pursuant to Article 3(F) shall be reported in the annual report of the commission. Such report shall include the nature, amount and conditions, if any, of the donation, grant, or services borrowed, and the identity of the donor or lender. 
H. The commission may establish and maintain such facilities as may be necessary for the transacting of its business. The commission may acquire, hold, and convey real and personal property and any interest therein. 
I. The commission shall adopt bylaws for the conduct of its business and shall have the power to amend and rescind these bylaws. The commission shall publish (in) its bylaws in convenient form and shall file a copy thereof and a copy of any amendment thereto, with the appropriate agency or officer in each of the party states. 
J. The commission annually shall make to the governor and legislature of each party state a report covering the activities of the commission for the preceding year. The commission may make such additional reports as it may deem desirable. 
ARTICLE 4. POWERS. In addition to authority conferred on the commission by other provisions of the compact, the commission shall have authority to: 
1. Collect, correlate, analyze and interpret information and data concerning educational needs and resources. 
2. 
Encourage and foster research in all aspects of education, but with special reference to the desirable scope of instruction, organization,administration, and instructional methods and standards employed or suitable for employment in public educational systems. 

3. 
Develop proposals for adequate financing of education as a whole and at each of its many levels. 

4. 
Conduct or participate in research of the types referred to in this article in any instance where the commission finds that such research is necessary for the advancement of the purposes and policies of this compact, utilizing fully the resources of national associations, regional compact organizations for higher education, and other agencies and institutions, both public and private. 

5. 
Formulate suggested policies and plans for the improvement of public education as a whole, or for any segment thereof, and make recommendations with respect thereto available to the appropriate governmental units, agencies, and public officials. 

6. 
Do such other things as may be necessary or incidental to the administration of any of its authority or functions pursuant to this compact. 


ARTICLE 5. 
COOPERATION WITH FEDERAL GOVERNMENT. 

A. If the laws of the United States specifically so provide, or if administrative provision is made therefor within the federal government, the United States may be represented on the commission by not to exceed ten (10) representatives. Any such representative or representatives of the United States shall be appointed and serve in such manner as may be provided by or pursuant to federal law, and may be drawn from any one or more branches of the federal government, but no such representative shall have a vote on the commission. 
B. The commission may provide information and make recommendations to any executive or legislative agency or officer of the federal government concerning the common educational policies of the states, and may advise with any such agencies or officers concerning any matter of mutual interest. 
ARTICLE 6. 
COMMITTEES. 

A. To assist in the expeditious conduct of its business when the full commission is not meeting, the commission shall elect a steering committee of thirty-two (32) members that, subject to the provisions of this compact and consistent with the policies of the commission, shall be constituted and function as provided in the by-laws of the commission. One-fourth (1/4) of the voting membership of the steering committee shall consist of governors, one-fourth (1/4) shall consist of legislators, and the remainder shall consist of other members of the commission. A federal representative on the commission may serve with the steering committee, but without vote. 
The voting members of the steering committee shall serve for terms of two (2) years, except that members elected to the first steering committee of the commission shall be elected as follows: sixteen 
(16) 
for one (1) year and sixteen (16) for two (2) years. The chairman, vice chairman, and treasurer of the commission shall be members of the steering committee and, anything in this paragraph to the contrary notwithstanding, shall serve during their continuance in these offices. Vacancies in the steering committee shall not affect its authority to act, but the commission at its next regularly ensuing meeting following the occurrence of any vacancy shall fill it for the unexpired term. No person shall serve more than two (2) terms as a member of the steering committee; provided that service for a partial term of one (1) year or less shall not be counted toward the two (2) term limitation. 

B. 
The commission may establish advisory and technical committees composed of state, local, and federal officials, and private persons to advise it with respect to any one (1) or more of its functions. Any advisory or technical committee may, on request of the states concerned, be established to consider any matter of special concern to two (2) or more of the party states. 

C. 
The commission may establish such additional committees as its bylaws may provide. 


ARTICLE 7. 
FINANCE. 

A. The commission shall advise the governor or designated officer or officers of each party state of its budget and estimated expenditures for such period as may be required by the laws of that party state. Each of the commission's budgets of estimated expenditures shall contain specific recommendations of the amount or amounts to be appropriated by each of the party states. 
B. The total amount of appropriation requests under any budget shall be apportioned among the party states. In making such apportionment, the commission shall devise and employ a formula which takes equitable account of the populations and per capita income levels of the party states. 
C. The commission shall not pledge the credit of any party states. The commission may meet any of its obligations in whole or in part with funds available to it pursuant to Article 3(G) of this compact, provided, that the commission takes specific action setting aside such funds prior to incurring an obligation to be met in whole or in part in such manner. Except where the commission makes use of funds available to it pursuant to Article 3(G) thereof, the commission shall not incur any obligation prior to the allotment of funds by the party states adequate to meet the same. 
D. The commission shall keep accurate accounts of all receipts and disbursements. The receipts and disbursements of the commission shall be subject to the audit and accounting procedures established by its bylaws. However, all receipts and disbursements of funds handled by the commission shall be audited yearly by a qualified public accountant, and the report of the audit shall be included in and become part of the annual reports of the commission. 
E. The accounts of the commission shall be open at any reasonable time for inspection by duly constituted officers of the party states and by any persons authorized by the commission. 
F. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to prevent commission compliance with laws relating to audit or inspection of accounts by or on behalf of any government contributing to the support of the commission. 
ARTICLE 8. 
ELIGIBLE PARTIES; 
ENTRY INTO AND WITHDRAWAL. 

A. This compact shall have as eligible parties all states, territories, and possessions of the United States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. In respect of any such jurisdiction not having a governor, the term "governor", as used in this compact, shall mean the closest equivalent official of such jurisdiction. 
B. Any state or other eligible jurisdiction may enter into this compact, and it shall become binding thereon when it has adopted the same: Provided, That in order to enter into initial effect, adoption by at least ten (10) eligible party jurisdictions shall be required. 
C. Adoption of the compact may be either by enactment thereof or by adherence thereto by the governor. However, in the absence of enactment, adherence by the governor shall be sufficient to make his state a party only until December 31, 1967. During any period when a state is participating in this compact through gubernatorial action, the governor shall appoint those persons who, in addition to himself, shall serve as the members of the commission from his state, and shall provide to the commission an equitable share of the financial support of the commission from any source available to him. 
D. Except for a withdrawal effective on December 31, 1967, in accordance with Article 8(C), any party state may withdraw from this compact by enacting a statute repealing the same, but no such withdrawal shall take effect until one (1) year after the governor of the withdrawing state has given notice in writing of the withdrawal to the governors of all other party states. No withdrawal shall affect any liability already incurred by or chargeable to a party state prior to the time of such withdrawal. 
ARTICLE 9. 
CONSTRUCTION AND SEVERABILITY. 

This compact shall be liberally construed so as to effectuate the purposes thereof. The provisions of this compact shall be severable and if any phrase, clause, sentence or provision of this compact is declared to be contrary to the constitution of any state or of the United States, or the application thereof to any government, agency, person, or circumstance is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this compact and the applicability thereof to any government, agency, person or circumstance shall not be affected thereby. If this compact shall be held contrary to the constitution of any state participating therein, the compact shall remain in full force and effect as to the state affected as to all severable matters. 
As added by P.L.1-2005, SEC.22. 

IC 20-38-2-2 Filing copies of bylaws and amendments 
Sec. 2. In accordance with Article 3(I) of the compact for education adopted by the state under section 1 of this chapter, the governor shall appoint one (1) of the commissioners designated under section 4 of this chapter to file a copy of the bylaws adopted by the education commission of the states and any amendments to those bylaws with the office of the secretary of state. As added by P.L.1-2005, SEC.22. 

IC 20-38-2-3 Authority of state officers to assist in carrying out compact 
Sec. 3. (a) Each state officer shall do whatever is necessary within the officer's respective jurisdiction in order to carry out the purposes of the compact for education adopted by the state under this chapter. 
(b) All officers, bureaus, or departments of state government shall furnish, upon the request of a commissioner designated under section 4 of this chapter, any information and data possessed by that officer, bureau, or department that pertains to the policies and purposes of the compact for education. As added by P.L.1-2005, SEC.22. 

IC 20-38-2-4 Designated commissioners; meetings; staff support 
Sec. 4. (a) In accordance with the compact for education adopted by the state under this chapter, the following seven (7) individuals are designated to represent the state as commissioners on the education commission of the states: 
(1) 
The governor. 

(2) 
One (1) member of the senate appointed by the president pro tempore of the senate. 

(3) 
One (1) member of the house of representatives appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives. 

(4) 
Four (4) members appointed by the governor, and serving at the pleasure of the governor, each of whom, either in a professional or lay capacity, is: 

(A) 
involved in the educational system in Indiana; or 

(B) 
familiar with the educational needs and problems in Indiana. 




(b) 
The commissioners designated in subsection (a) are not required to hold meetings. However, the governor may take whatever 

action is necessary to ensure that the state is appropriately represented at the meetings or events sponsored by the education commission of the states. 

(c) 
The commissioners designated in subsection (a) may exercise on behalf of the state the powers set forth under Article 4 of the compact for education adopted by the state under section 1 of this chapter. 


(d) Administrative and staff support for the commissioners shall be provided by the education policy office of the Indiana University School of Public and Environmental Affairs at Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis. As added by P.L.1-2005, SEC.22. 

IC 20-38-2-5 Compensation 
Sec. 5. (a) Each commissioner who is not a state employee is not entitled to the minimum salary per diem provided by IC 4-10-11-2.1(b). Such a member is, however, entitled to reimbursement for traveling expenses and other expenses actually incurred in connection with the member's duties, as provided in the state travel policies and procedures established by the Indiana department of administration and approved by the budget agency. 
(b) Each commissioner who is a state employee but who is not a member of the general assembly is entitled to reimbursement for traveling expenses and other expenses actually incurred in connection with the member's duties, as provided in the state travel policies and procedures established by the Indiana department of administration and approved by the budget agency. 
(c) Each commissioner who is a member of the general assembly is entitled to receive the same per diem, mileage, and travel allowances paid to members of the general assembly serving on interim study committees established by the legislative council. As added by P.L.1-2005, SEC.22. 

IC 20-38-3 
Chapter 3. Interstate Compact on Educational Opportunity for Military Children 
IC 20-38-3-1 Purpose 
Sec. 1. ARTICLE I. PURPOSE 
It is the purpose of this compact to remove barriers to educational success imposed on children of military families due to frequent moves and deployment of their parents by doing the following: 
A. Facilitating the timely enrollment of children of military families and ensuring that they are not placed at a disadvantage due to difficulty in the transfer of educational records from the school corporations the children previously attended or variations in admissions requirements. 
B. Facilitating the student placement process to ensure that children of military families are not placed at a disadvantage due to variations in attendance requirements, scheduling, sequencing, grading, course content, or assessment. 
C. Facilitating the qualifications and eligibility for enrollment and participation in educational programs and extracurricular academic, athletic, and social activities. 
D. Facilitating the timely graduation of children of military families. 
E. Providing for the adoption and enforcement of rules to implement this chapter. 
F. Providing for the uniform collection and sharing of information among member states, schools, and military families. 
G. Promoting coordination among this compact and other compacts affecting children of military families. 
H. Promoting flexibility and cooperation among the educational system, students, and families to achieve educational success for the students. 
As added by P.L.21-2009, SEC.1. 

IC 20-38-3-2 Definitions 
Sec. 2. ARTICLE II. DEFINITIONS 
As used in this compact, unless the context clearly requires a different construction: 
A. "Active duty" means full-time duty status in the armed forces of the United States or the National Guard and Reserve on active duty orders under 10 U.S.C. 1209 and 10 U.S.C 1211. 
B. "Children of military families" means school aged children who are enrolled in kindergarten through grade 12 and are members of the household of an active duty member. 
C. "Compact commissioner" means the voting representative of each member state appointed under section 9 of this chapter. 
D. "Deployment" means the period beginning one (1) month before a service member departs from the member's home station on military orders and ending six (6) months after the service member returns to the member's home station. 
E. "Educational records" means the official records, files, and data that are directly related to a student and maintained by a school or local education agency. The term includes general identifying data, records of attendance and academic work completed, records of achievement and results of evaluative tests, health data, disciplinary status, test protocols, and individualized education programs. 
F. "Extracurricular activities" means voluntary activities sponsored by a school, a local education agency, or an organization approved by a local education agency. The term includes preparation for and involvement in public performances, contests, athletic competitions, demonstrations, displays, and club activities. 
G. "Interstate commission" refers to the interstate commission on Educational Opportunity for Military Children created by Article IX of this compact. 
H. "Local education agency" means a public administrative agency authorized by the state to control and direct kindergarten through grade 12 public educational institutions. 
I. "Member state" means a state that has enacted this compact. 
J. "Military installation" means a base, a camp, a post, a station, a yard, a center, a homeport facility for a ship, or any other activity under the jurisdiction of the United States Department of Defense. The term includes a leased facility located within the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Northern Marianas Islands, or any other United States territory. The term does not include a facility used primarily for civil works, rivers and harbors projects, or flood control projects. 
K. "Nonmember state" means a state that has not enacted this compact. 
L. "Receiving state" means the state to which a child of a military family is sent, brought, or caused to be sent or brought. 
M. "Rule" means a written statement by the interstate commission adopted under Article XII of this compact that is of general applicability, that implements, interprets, or prescribes a policy of provision of the interstate compact, and that has the force and effect of statutory law on a member state. The term includes the amendment, repeal, or suspension of an existing rule. 
N. "Sending state" means the state from which a child of a military family is sent, brought, or caused to be sent or brought. 
O. "State" means a state of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Northern Marianas Islands, or any other United States territory. 
P. "Student" means a child of a military family for whom a local education agency receives public funding and who is formally enrolled in kindergarten through grade 12. 
Q. "Transition" means the formal and physical process of transferring a student between schools or the period during which a student transfers from a school in the sending state to a school in the receiving states. 
R. "Uniformed services" means the United States Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard. The term includes the commission corp of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the Public Health Services. 
S. "Veteran" means an individual who served in and was discharged or released from the uniformed services under conditions other than dishonorable. 
As added by P.L.21-2009, SEC.1. 

IC 20-38-3-3 Applicability 
Sec. 3. ARTICLE III. APPLICABILITY 
A. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph B, this compact applies to the children of the following: 
1. 
An active duty member of the uniformed services, including a member of the National Guard and Reserve on active duty orders under 10 U.S.C. 1209 and 10 U.S.C 1211. 

2. 
A member or veteran of the uniformed services who is severely injured and medically discharged or retired for at least one (1) year after medical discharge or retirement. 

3. 
A member of the uniformed services who dies on active duty or as a result of injuries sustained on active duty, for one (1) year after the member's death. 


B. This compact applies only to local education agencies as defined in this compact. 
C. This compact does not apply to the children of the following: 
1. 
Inactive members of the National Guard and military reserves. 

2. 
Retired members of the uniformed services, except as provided in paragraph A. 

3. 
Veterans of the uniformed services, except as provided in paragraph A. 

4. 
Other United States Department of Defense personnel and other federal agency civilian and contract employees not defined as active duty members of the uniformed services. 


As added by P.L.21-2009, SEC.1. Amended by P.L.1-2010, SEC.81. 

IC 20-38-3-4 Educational records and enrollment 
Sec. 4. ARTICLE IV. EDUCATIONAL RECORDS AND ENROLLMENT 
A. If official educational records cannot be released to the parents for the purpose of transfer, the custodian of the records in the sending state shall prepare and furnish to the parent a complete set of unofficial educational records containing uniform information as determined by the interstate commission. Upon receipt of the unofficial educational records by a school in the receiving state, the school shall enroll and appropriately place the student based on the information provided in the unofficial records, pending validation by the official records, as quickly as possible. 
B. At the same time as the enrollment and conditional placement of the student, the school in the receiving state shall request the student's official educational record from the school in the sending state. Upon receipt of this request, the school in the sending state shall process and furnish the official educational records to the school in the receiving state within ten (10) days of such time as is reasonably determined under the rules adopted by the interstate commission. 
C. Member states shall give thirty (30) days after the date of enrollment, or within such time as is reasonably determined under the rules adopted by the interstate commission, for students to obtain immunizations required by the receiving state. For a series of immunizations, initial vaccinations must be obtained within thirty 
(30) 
days or within such time as is reasonably determined under the rules adopted by the interstate commission. 

D. 
Students may continue their enrollment at grade level in the receiving state commensurate with their grade level (including kindergarten) from a local education agency in the sending state at the time of transition, regardless of age. A student who has satisfactorily completed the prerequisite grade level in the local education agency in the sending state is eligible for enrollment in the next highest grade level in the receiving state, regardless of age. A student who transfers after the start of the school year in the receiving state shall enter the school in the receiving state on the student's validated level from an accredited school in the sending state. 


As added by P.L.21-2009, SEC.1. 

IC 20-38-3-5 Placement and attendance 
Sec. 5. ARTICLE V. PLACEMENT AND ATTENDANCE 
A. When a student transfers before or during a school year, the receiving state school initially shall honor placement of the student in educational courses based on the student's enrollment in the sending state school, on educational assessments conducted at the school in the sending state if the courses are offered, or on both the enrollment and assessments. Course placement includes honors, international baccalaureate, advanced placement, vocational, technical, and career pathways courses. Continuing the student's academic program from the previous school and promoting placement in academically and career challenging courses are paramount when considering placement. The school in the receiving state may perform subsequent evaluations to ensure appropriate placement and continued enrollment of the student in the courses. 
B. The receiving state school initially shall honor placement of a student in educational programs based on current educational assessments conducted at the school in the sending state or by participation or placement in similar programs in the sending state. Similar programs include gifted and talented programs and English as a second language programs. A school in a receiving state may perform subsequent evaluations to ensure appropriate placement of a student. 
C. In compliance with the federal requirements of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, 20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq., the receiving state shall initially provide comparable services to a student with disabilities based on the student's current individualized education program. 
D. In compliance with the requirements of Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, 29 U.S.C. 794, and with Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C. 12131 through 12165, the receiving state shall make reasonable accommodations and modifications to address the needs of incoming students with disabilities, subject to an existing 504 Plan or Title II Plan, to provide the student with equal access to education. A school in a receiving state may perform subsequent evaluations to ensure appropriate placement of a student. 
E. Local education agency administrative officials have flexibility in waiving course or program prerequisites or other preconditions for placement in courses or programs offered under the jurisdiction of the local education agency. 
F. A student whose parent or legal guardian is an active duty member of the uniformed services and has been called to duty for, is on leave from, or has immediately returned from deployment to a combat zone or combat support posting, shall be granted additional excused absences at the discretion of the local education agency superintendent to visit with the parent or legal guardian before the leave or deployment. As added by P.L.21-2009, SEC.1. 

IC 20-38-3-6 Eligibility 
Sec. 6. ARTICLE VI. ELIGIBILITY 
A. Eligibility for enrollment 
1. 
A special power of attorney, relative to the guardianship of 

a child of a military family, is sufficient for the purposes of enrollment and all other actions requiring parental participation and consent. 

2. 
A local education agency is prohibited from charging local tuition to a transitioning child of a military family placed in the care of a noncustodial parent or another person standing in loco parentis who lives in a jurisdiction other than the jurisdiction of the custodial parent. 

3.
 A transitioning child of a military family, placed in the care of a noncustodial parent or another person standing in loco parentis who lives in a jurisdiction other than the jurisdiction of the custodial parent, may attend the school in which the child was enrolled while residing with the custodial parent. 


B. States and local education agencies shall facilitate the opportunity for the inclusion of transitioning children of military families in extracurricular activities, regardless of application deadlines, to the extent the children are otherwise qualified. 
As added by P.L.21-2009, SEC.1. 

IC 20-38-3-7 Graduation 
Sec. 7. ARTICLE VII. GRADUATION 
To facilitate the on time graduation of children of military families, states and local education agencies shall follow the following procedures: 
A. Local education agency administrative officials shall waive specific courses required for graduation if a student has satisfactorily completed similar course work in another local education agency. If a local education agency does not grant a waiver to a student who would qualify to graduate from the sending school, the local education agency must provide reasonable justification for denial of the waiver and provide alternative means to acquire the required course work so the student may graduate on time. 
B.
 A receiving state shall accept any of the following in place of testing requirements for graduation in the receiving state: 

1. 
Exit or end of course exams required for graduation from the sending state. 

2.
 National norm referenced achievement tests. 



3.
 Alternative testing. If a receiving state fails to accept an alternative listed in this paragraph for a student transferring during the student's senior year, paragraph C applies. 


C. If a student who transfers at the beginning of the student's senior year is ineligible to graduate from the receiving local education agency after all alternatives under paragraph B have been considered, the sending and receiving local education agencies shall ensure the receipt of a diploma from the sending local education agency if the student meets the graduation requirements of the sending local education agency. If a sending or receiving state is not a member state, the state that is a member state shall use best efforts to facilitate the on time graduation of the student under paragraphs A and B. 
As added by P.L.21-2009, SEC.1. 

IC 20-38-3-8 State coordination 
Sec. 8. ARTICLE VIII. STATE COORDINATION 
A. A member state shall create a state council or use an existing body or board to coordinate the actions of government agencies, local education agencies, and military installations concerning the state's participation in and compliance with this compact and interstate commission activities. A state council created under this section must include at least the following members: 
1.
 The state superintendent of education. 

2. 
A superintendent of a school district with a high concentration of children of military families. If a member state does not contain a school district with a high concentration of children of military families, a superintendent of a school district to represent local education agencies. 

3.
 A representative of a military installation. 

4.
 A member of the legislative branch. 

5.
 A member of the executive branch. 


B. The state council of each member state shall appoint or designate a military family education liaison to assist military families and the state in facilitating the implementation of this compact. 
C. The compact commissioner responsible for the administration and management of a member state's participation in this compact shall be appointed by the governor of the member state or as otherwise determined by the member state. 
D. The compact commissioner and the military family education liaison appointed under this section are ex officio members of the state council unless either is already a voting member of the state council. As added by P.L.21-2009, SEC.1. 

IC 20-38-3-9 Interstate commission on educational opportunity for military children 
Sec. 9. ARTICLE IX. INTERSTATE COMMISSION ON EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITY FOR MILITARY CHILDREN 
The member states hereby create the interstate commission on Educational Opportunity for Military Children. The activities of the interstate commission are the formation of public policy and are a discretionary state function. The interstate commission: 
A. Is a body corporate and joint agency of the member states and has all the responsibilities, powers, and duties set forth in this compact and such additional powers as may be conferred upon it by a subsequent concurrent action of the legislatures of the member states under the terms of this compact. 
B. Consists of one (1) interstate commission voting representative from each member state who is the member state's compact commissioner. 
1. 
Each member state represented at a meeting of the interstate commission is entitled to one (1) vote. 

2. 
A majority of the total member states constitutes a quorum for the transaction of business unless the bylaws of the interstate commission require a larger quorum. 

3. 
A representative may not delegate a vote to another member state. If a compact commissioner is unable to attend a meeting of the interstate commission, the governor or the state council may delegate voting authority to another person from the compact commissioner's state for a specified meeting. 

4. 
The bylaws may provide for meetings of the interstate commission to be conducted by telecommunication or electronic communication. 


C. Consists of ex officio, nonvoting representatives who are members of interested organizations, including members of the representative organizations of military family advocates, local education agency officials, parent and teacher groups, the United States Department of Defense, the Education Commission of the States, the Interstate Agreement on the Qualification of Educational Personnel, and other interstate compacts affecting the education of children of military families. 
D. Shall meet at least one (1) time each calendar year. The chairperson may call additional meetings and, upon the request of a simple majority of the member states, must call additional meetings. 
E. Shall establish an executive committee. Members of the executive committee include the officers of the interstate commission and other members of the interstate commission as determined by the bylaws. Members of the executive committee shall serve a one (1) year term. Members of the executive committee are entitled to one 
(1) 
vote each. The executive committee has the power to act on behalf of the interstate commission, except for rulemaking, during periods when the interstate commission is not in session. The executive committee shall oversee the daily activities of the administration of this compact, including enforcement and compliance with this compact, its bylaws, and its rules, and other necessary duties. The United States Department of Defense is an ex officio nonvoting member of the executive committee. 

F. 
Shall establish bylaws and rules that provide for conditions and procedures under which the interstate commission shall make its information and official records available to the public for inspection or copying. The interstate commission may exempt from disclosure 


information or official records to the extent they would adversely affect personal privacy rights or proprietary interests. 
G. Shall give public notice of all meetings. All meetings are open to the public except as set forth in the rules or as otherwise provided in this compact. The interstate commission and its committees may close a meeting or part of a meeting if the interstate commission determines by a two-thirds (2/3) majority that an open meeting would be likely to: 
1. 
relate solely to the interstate commission's internal personnel practices and procedures; 

2. 
disclose matters specifically exempted from disclosure by federal or state law; 

3. 
disclose trade secrets or privileged or confidential commercial or financial information; 

4. 
involve accusing a person of a crime or formally censuring a person; 

5. 
disclose information of a personal nature in a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy; 

6. 
disclose investigative records compiled for law enforcement purposes; or 

7. 
specifically relate to the interstate commission's participation in a civil action or another legal proceedings. 


H. Shall cause its legal counsel or designee to certify that a meeting may be closed and reference each relevant exemptible provision for any meeting or part of a meeting that is closed under this section. The interstate commission shall keep minutes that fully and clearly describe all matters discussed in a meeting and provide a full and accurate summary of actions taken and the reasons for taking the actions, including a description of the views expressed and the record of a roll call vote. All documents considered in connection with an action must be identified in the minutes. All minutes and documents of a closed meeting shall remain under seal, subject to release by a majority vote of the interstate commission. 
I. Shall collect standardized data concerning the educational transition of the children of military families under this compact as directed through the interstate commission's rules. The rules must specify the data to be collected, the means of collection, and data exchange and reporting requirements. The methods of data collection, exchange, and reporting must, to the extent reasonably possible, conform to current technology and coordinate information functions with the appropriate custodian of records as identified in the interstate commission's bylaws and rules. 
J. Shall create a process to permit military officials, education officials, and parents to inform the interstate commission of alleged violations of this compact or the rules of the interstate commissions, or when issues subject to the jurisdiction of this compact or the rules of the interstate commission are not addressed by a state or local education agency. This section may not be construed to create a private right of action against the interstate commission or any member state. 
As added by P.L.21-2009, SEC.1. 

IC 20-38-3-10 Powers and duties of commission 
Sec. 10. ARTICLE X. POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE INTERSTATE COMMISSION 
The interstate commission has the following powers: 
A. To provide for dispute resolution among member states. 
B. To adopt rules and take all necessary actions to effect the goals, purposes, and obligations set forth in this compact. The rules have the force and effect of statutory law and are binding in the member states to the extent and in the manner provided in this compact. 
C. To issue, upon request of a member state, advisory opinions concerning the meaning or interpretation of this compact or the bylaws, rules, or actions of the interstate commission. 
D. To enforce compliance with compact provisions, rules adopted by the interstate commission, and the bylaws, using all necessary and proper means, including the use of judicial process. 
E. To establish and maintain offices located within one (1) or more member states. 
F. To purchase and maintain insurance and bonds. 
G. To borrow, accept, hire, or contract for personnel services. 
H. To establish and appoint committees, including an executive committee required by Article IX, Section E. The executive committee has the power to act on behalf of the interstate commission in carrying out the powers and duties of the interstate commission. 
I. To elect or appoint officers, attorneys, employees, agents, or consultants, and to fix their compensation, define their duties, and determine their qualifications, and to establish the interstate commission's personnel policies and programs relating to conflicts of interest, rates of compensation, and qualifications of personnel. 
J. To accept donations and grants of money, equipment, supplies, materials, and services, and to receive, use, and dispose of the donations and grants. 
K. To lease, purchase, accept contributions or donations of, or otherwise own, hold, improve, or use any property. 
L. To sell, convey, mortgage, pledge, lease, exchange, abandon, or otherwise dispose of any property. 
M. To establish a budget and make expenditures. 
N. To adopt a seal and bylaws governing the management and operation of the interstate commission. 
O. To report annually to the legislatures, governors, judiciary, and the state councils of the member states about the activities of the interstate commission during the preceding year. A report must include any recommendations adopted by the interstate commission. A report to the general assembly must be in an electronic format under IC 5-14-6. 
P. To coordinate education, training, and public awareness for officials and parents regarding the compact and its implementation and operation. 
Q. To establish uniform standards for the reporting, collecting, and exchanging of data. 
R. To maintain corporate books and records in accordance with the bylaws. 
S. To perform necessary and appropriate functions to achieve the purposes of this compact. 
T. To provide for the uniform collection and sharing of information among member states, schools, and military families under this compact. As added by P.L.21-2009, SEC.1. 

IC 20-38-3-11 Organization and operation of commission 
Sec. 11. ARTICLE XI. ORGANIZATION AND OPERATION OF THE INTERSTATE COMMISSION 
A. The interstate commission shall, by a majority of members present and voting, within twelve (12) months after the first interstate commission meeting, adopt bylaws to govern its conduct and carry out the purposes of this compact, including the following: 
1.
 Establishing the fiscal year of the interstate commission. 

2. 
Establishing an executive committee and other necessary committees. 

3. 
Providing for the establishment of committees and for governing any delegation of authority or function of the interstate commission. 

4.
 Providing reasonable procedures for calling and conducting meetings of the interstate commission and ensuring reasonable notice of each meeting. 

5. 
Establishing the titles and responsibilities of the officers and staff of the interstate commission. 

6. 
Providing a mechanism for concluding the operations of the interstate commission and the return of surplus funds existing upon the termination of the compact after the payment and reserving of all the debts and obligations of the interstate commission. 

7. 
Providing "start up" rules for initial administration of this compact. 


B. The interstate commission shall, by a majority of members, elect annually from its members a chairperson, a vice chairperson, and a treasurer, each of whom has the authority and duties specified in the bylaws. The chairperson or vice chairperson, as applicable, shall preside at all meetings of the interstate commission. The elected officers shall serve without compensation or remuneration from the interstate commission. However, subject to the availability of budgeted funds, the officers shall be reimbursed for ordinary and necessary costs and expenses incurred in the performance of their responsibilities as officers of the interstate commission. 
C. Executive Committee, Officers, and Personnel 
1. The executive committee has the authority and duties set forth in the bylaws, including: 
a. 
managing the affairs of the interstate commission in a manner consistent with the bylaws and purposes of the interstate commission; 

b. 
overseeing an organizational structure within, and appropriate procedures for, the interstate commission to provide for the creation of rules, operating procedures, and administrative and technical support functions; and 

c. 
planning, implementing, and coordinating communications and activities with other state, federal, and local government organizations to advance the goals of the interstate commission. 


2. The executive committee may, subject to the approval of the interstate commission, appoint or retain an executive director for a period, upon such terms and conditions, and for such compensation as the interstate commission may consider appropriate. The executive director shall serve as secretary to the interstate commission but is not a member of the interstate commission. The executive director shall hire and supervise other persons authorized by the interstate commission. 
D. The interstate commission's executive director and interstate commission employees are immune from suit and liability, personally or in their official capacities, for a claim for damage to or loss of property or personal injury or other civil liability caused or arising out of or relating to an actual or alleged act, error, or omission that occurred, or that such a person had a reasonable basis for believing occurred, within the scope of interstate commission employment, duties, or responsibilities. However, a person is not protected from suit or liability for damage, loss, injury, or liability caused by the intentional or willful and wanton misconduct of the person. 
1. 
The liability of the interstate commission's executive director, an employee, or a representative, acting within the scope of the person's employment or duties for acts, errors, or omissions occurring within the person's state may not exceed the limits of liability set forth under the Constitution and laws of that state for state officials, employees, and agents. The interstate commission is an instrumentality of the states for purposes of such an action. This subsection shall be construed to protect such person from suit or liability for damage, loss, injury, or liability caused by the intentional or willful and wanton 

misconduct of the person. 

2. 
The interstate commission shall defend the executive director and its employees and, subject to the approval of the attorney general or other appropriate legal counsel of a member state represented by an interstate commission representative, shall defend the interstate commission representative in a civil action seeking to impose liability arising out of an actual or alleged act, error, or omission that occurred within the scope of interstate commission employment, duties or responsibilities, or that the defendant reasonably believed occurred within the scope of interstate commission employment, duties, or responsibilities, provided that the actual or alleged act, error, or omission did not result from intentional or willful and wanton misconduct on the part of the defendant. 

3. 
To the extent not covered by the state involved, a member state, the interstate commission, and the representatives and employees of the interstate commission are held harmless in the amount of a settlement or judgment, including attorney's fees and costs, obtained against persons arising out of an actual or alleged act, error, or omission that occurred within the scope of interstate commission employment, duties, or responsibilities, or that the persons reasonably believed occurred within the scope of interstate commission employment, duties, or responsibilities, provided that the actual or alleged act, error, or omission did not result from intentional or willful and wanton misconduct on the part of the persons. 


As added by P.L.21-2009, SEC.1. 

IC 20-38-3-12 Rulemaking functions of commission 
Sec. 12. ARTICLE XII. RULEMAKING FUNCTIONS OF THE INTERSTATE COMMISSION 
A. The interstate commission shall adopt reasonable rules to effectively and efficiently achieve the purposes of this compact. However, if the interstate commission exercises its rulemaking authority in a manner that is beyond the scope of the purposes of or power granted under this compact, the action by the interstate commission is invalid and has no force or effect. 
B. Rules shall be made under a rulemaking process that substantially conforms to the "Model State Administrative Procedure Act," of 1981 Act, Uniform Laws Annotated, Vol. 15, p. 1 (2000) as amended, as may be appropriate to the operations of the interstate commission. 
C. Not later than thirty (30) days after a rule is adopted, a person may file a petition for judicial review of the rule. However, the filing of a petition does not stay or otherwise prevent the rule from becoming effective unless a court finds that the petitioner has a substantial likelihood of success. The court shall defer to the actions of the interstate commission consistent with applicable law and shall not find the rule to be unlawful if the rule represents a reasonable exercise of the interstate commission's authority. 
D. If a majority of the legislatures of the member states rejects a rule by enactment of a statute or resolution in the same manner used to adopt the compact, the rule has no further force and effect in any compacting state. As added by P.L.21-2009, SEC.1. 

IC 20-38-3-13 Oversight, enforcement, and dispute resolution 
Sec. 13. ARTICLE XIII. OVERSIGHT, ENFORCEMENT, AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION 
A. Oversight 
1. 
The executive, legislative, and judicial branches of state government in each member state shall enforce this compact and take all actions necessary and appropriate to effectuate the compact's purposes and intent. This compact and the rules adopted under this compact have standing as statutory law. 

2. 
All courts shall take judicial notice of this compact and the rules adopted under this compact in any judicial or administrative proceeding in a member state pertaining to the subject matter of this compact that may affect the powers, responsibilities, or actions of the interstate commission. 

3. 
The interstate commission is entitled to receive all service of process in any proceeding and has standing to intervene in the proceeding for all purposes. Failure to provide service of process to the interstate commission renders a judgment or an order void as to the interstate commission, this compact, or adopted rules. 


B. If the interstate commission determines that a member state has defaulted in the performance of its obligations or responsibilities under this compact, the bylaws, or the adopted rules, the interstate commission shall do the following: 
1. 
Provide written notice to the defaulting state and other member states of the nature of the default, the means of curing the default, and any action taken by the interstate commission. The interstate commission shall specify the conditions by which the defaulting state must cure its default. 

2. 
Provide remedial training and specific technical assistance regarding the default. 

3. 
If the defaulting state fails to cure the default, the defaulting state shall be withdrawn from this compact upon an affirmative vote of a majority of the member states, and all rights, privileges, and benefits conferred by this compact are terminated from the effective date of the defaulting state's withdrawal. A cure of the default does not relieve the offending state of obligations or liabilities incurred during the period of 

the default. 

4. 
Suspension or termination of membership in this compact shall be imposed only after all other means of securing compliance have been exhausted. Notice of intent to suspend or withdraw shall be given by the interstate commission to the governor, the majority and minority leaders of the defaulting state's legislature, and each of the member states. 

5. 
The member state that has been suspended or withdrawn is responsible for all assessments, obligations, and liabilities incurred through the effective date of its suspension or termination, including obligations, the performance of which extends beyond the effective date of suspension or withdrawal. 

6. 
The interstate commission shall not bear any costs relating to any member state that has been found to be in default or that has been suspended or withdrawn from this compact unless otherwise mutually agreed upon in writing between the interstate commission and the defaulting member state. 

7. 
The defaulting member state may appeal the action of the interstate commission by petitioning the United States District Court for the District of Columbia or the federal district where the interstate commission has its principal offices. The prevailing party shall be awarded all costs of such litigation, including reasonable attorney's fees. 


C. Dispute Resolution 
1. 
The interstate commission shall attempt, upon the request of a member state, to resolve disputes that are subject to this compact and that may arise among member states and between member and nonmember states. 

2. 
The interstate commission shall adopt a rule providing for both mediation and binding dispute resolution for disputes as appropriate. 


D. Enforcement 
1. 
The interstate commission, in the reasonable exercise of its discretion, shall enforce the provisions and rules of this compact. 

2. 
The interstate commission may, by majority vote of the members, initiate legal action in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia or, at the discretion of the interstate commission, in the federal district where the interstate commission has its principal offices, to enforce compliance with this compact and its adopted rules and bylaws against a member state in default. The relief sought may include both injunctive relief and damages. In the event judicial enforcement is necessary, the prevailing party shall be awarded all costs of such litigation, including reasonable attorney's fees. 

3. 
The remedies set forth in this section are not the exclusive remedies of the interstate commission. The interstate commission may avail itself of any other remedies available 


under state law or the regulation of a profession. 
As added by P.L.21-2009, SEC.1. Amended by P.L.1-2010, SEC.82. 

IC 20-38-3-14 Financing of commission 
Sec. 14. ARTICLE XIV. FINANCING OF THE INTERSTATE COMMISSION 
A. The interstate commission shall pay, or provide for the payment of, the reasonable expenses of its establishment, organization, and ongoing activities. 
B. The interstate commission may levy on, and collect an annual assessment from, each member state to cover the cost of the operations and activities of the interstate commission and its staff. The total amount of the assessment must be sufficient to cover the interstate commission's annual budget as approved each year. The total annual assessment amount shall be allocated based upon a formula to be determined by the interstate commission, which shall adopt a rule binding upon all member states. 
C. The interstate commission may not incur obligations of any kind before securing the funds adequate to meet the obligations, nor shall the interstate commission pledge the credit of any of the member states, except by and with the authority of the member state. 
D. The interstate commission shall keep accurate accounts of all receipts and disbursements. The receipts and disbursements of the interstate commission are subject to the audit and accounting procedures established under its bylaws. However, all receipts and disbursements of funds handled by the interstate commission shall be audited yearly by a certified or licensed public accountant, and the report of the audit shall be included in and become part of the annual report of the interstate commission. 
As added by P.L.21-2009, SEC.1. 

IC 20-38-3-15 Member states, effective date, and amendment 
Sec. 15. ARTICLE XV. MEMBER STATES, EFFECTIVE DATE, AND AMENDMENT 
A. Any state is eligible to become a member state. 
B. This compact becomes effective and binding upon legislative enactment of the compact into law by at least ten (10) of the states. It becomes effective and binding as to any other member state upon enactment of the compact into law by that state. The governors of nonmember states or their designees shall be invited to participate in the activities of the interstate commission on a nonvoting basis before adoption of the compact by all states. 
C. The interstate commission may propose amendments to this compact for enactment by the member states. An amendment shall not become effective and binding upon the interstate commission and the member states unless and until the amendment is enacted into law by unanimous consent of the member states. 
As added by P.L.21-2009, SEC.1. 

IC 20-38-3-16 Withdrawal and dissolution 
Sec. 16. ARTICLE XVI. WITHDRAWAL AND DISSOLUTION 
A. Withdrawal 
1. 
Once effective, this compact continues in force and remains binding upon each and every member state. However, a member state may withdraw from this compact by repealing the statute that enacted the compact into law. 

2. 
Withdrawal from this compact shall be by repealing the statute that enacted this compact into law but does not take effect until one (1) year after the effective date of the repealing statute and until written notice of the withdrawal has been given by the withdrawing state to the governor of each other member state. 

3. 
The withdrawing state shall immediately notify the chairperson of the interstate commission in writing upon the introduction of legislation repealing this compact in the withdrawing state. The interstate commission shall notify the other member states of the withdrawing state's intent to withdraw within sixty (60) days of its receipt of the written notification. 

4. 
The withdrawing state is responsible for all assessments, obligations, and liabilities incurred through the effective date of its withdrawal, including obligations, the performance of which extend beyond the effective date of withdrawal. 

5. 
Reinstatement following withdrawal of a member state shall occur upon the withdrawing state reenacting this compact or upon a later date as determined by the interstate commission. 


B. Dissolution of Compact 
1. 
This compact dissolves effective upon the date of the withdrawal or default of the member state that reduces the membership in the compact to one (1) member state. 

2. 
Upon the dissolution of this compact, this compact becomes void and is of no further force or effect, and the business and affairs of the interstate commission shall be concluded, and surplus funds shall be distributed, in accordance with the bylaws. 


As added by P.L.21-2009, SEC.1. 

IC 20-38-3-17 Severability and construction 
Sec. 17. ARTICLE XVII. SEVERABILITY AND CONSTRUCTION 
A. The provisions of this compact are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, or provision is considered unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this compact are enforceable. 
B. The provisions of this compact shall be liberally construed to effectuate its purposes. 
C. This compact may not be construed to prohibit the applicability of other interstate compacts to which the states are members. 
As added by P.L.21-2009, SEC.1. 

IC 20-38-3-18 Binding effect of compact and other laws 
Sec. 18. ARTICLE XVIII. BINDING EFFECT OF COMPACT AND OTHER LAWS 
A. Other Laws 
1. 
This compact does not prevent the enforcement of any other law of a member state that is not inconsistent with this compact. 

2. 
All member states' laws that conflict with this compact are superseded to the extent of the conflict. 


B. Binding Effect of the Compact 
1. 
All lawful actions of the interstate commission, including all rules and bylaws adopted by the interstate commission, are binding upon the member states. 

2. 
All agreements between the interstate commission and the member states are binding in accordance with their terms. 

3. 
If a provision of this compact exceeds the constitutional limits imposed on the legislature of any member state, the provision is ineffective to the extent of the conflict with the constitutional provision in question in that member state. 


As added by P.L.21-2009, SEC.1. 


