IC 20-25-14 Chapter 14. Summer Remediation 
IC 20-25-14-1 Required and optional summer remediation services 
Sec. 1. (a) The school city must provide summer remediation services to each student in a designated grade level who does not meet state achievement standards. 
(b) The school city may provide summer remediation services to students of any other grade level who are determined by the school city to be at risk of academic failure. 
As added by P.L.1-2005, SEC.9. 

IC 20-25-14-2 Proposalsandcontracts for provisionofservices; eligibleproviders 
Sec. 2. The board may: 
(1) 
request and receive competitive proposals from: 

(A) 
a school of the school city; 

(B) 
another public educational institution; or 



(C) 
a group of educators from the school city; to provide summer remediation services under guidelines and specified performance standards established by the board; and 

(2) 
contract with one (1) or more providers listed in subdivision 

(1) 
to provide summer remediation services to students in the school city. 


As added by P.L.1-2005, SEC.9. 

IC 20-25-14-3 Costs; state reimbursement 
Sec. 3. The school city: 
(1) shall pay the cost of summer remediation services; and 
(2) may use all available funding from the state for the payment. The purchase of remediation services is eligible for state reimbursement in the same manner as other state funding, including summer school funding. 
As added by P.L.1-2005, SEC.9. 

IC 20-25-14-4 Services provided by contractors; summer remediation subsidy 
Sec. 4. (a) Summer remediation services provided by contractors under section 2 of this chapter shall be provided at no tuition cost to the student. 
(b) Upon the request of the parent of a student described in section 1 of this chapter, the school city shall provide the parent with a summer remediation subsidy in an amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of the lowest per student cost of summer remediation services provided by a contractor under section 2 of this chapter. 
(c) A parent to whom a summer remediation subsidy is provided 
 may use the subsidy to purchase summer remediation services from a provider located in Marion County. The parent may choose to use the remediation subsidy at an accredited public school. If the amount of tuition for the remediation services is greater than the amount of the remediation subsidy provided to the parent, the parent is responsible for the additional amount. 
(d) 
The allocated remediation subsidy is payable to a provider of remediation services upon the provider's enrollment of the student in the remediation program. 

(e) 
Payment of a remediation subsidy fulfills the obligation under this chapter of the school city to provide remediation services to a student. 


(f) If a student who has received a remediation subsidy does not complete a remediation program, the provider of remediation services shall refund the remediation subsidy on a pro rata basis to the school city. As added by P.L.1-2005, SEC.9. 
 

