IC 20-36-2 Chapter 2. Programs for High Ability Students 
IC 20-36-2-1 State resources program; grants for high ability programs 
Sec. 1. (a) The department shall establish a state resources program using designated state resources that: 
(1) 
supports school corporations in the development of local programs for high ability students; 

(2) 
enables educational opportunities that encourage high ability students to reach the highest possible level at every stage of the students' development; and 

(3) 
provides state integrated services that include the following: 

(A) 
Information and materials resource centers. 

(B) 
Professional development plan and programs. 

(C) 
Research and development services. 

(D) 
Technical assistance that includes the following: 

(i)
 Student assessment. 

(ii) 
Program assessment. 


(iii) Program development and implementation. 

(E) 
Support for educators pursuingprofessionaldevelopment leading to endorsement or licensure in high ability education. 




(b) In addition to the program established under subsection (a), the department shall use appropriations to provide grants to school corporations for programs for high ability students under section 2 of this chapter in an amount determined by the department that is based upon a set minimum amount increased by an additional amount for each student in the program. A school corporation's program must align with the strategic and continuous school improvement and achievement plans under IC 20-31-5-4 for the schools within the school corporation. A school that receives a grant under this subsection shall submit an annual report to the department that includes the following: 
(1) 
The programs for which the grant is used. 

(2) 
The results of the programs for which the grant is used, including student general assessment results, program effectiveness, or student achievement. 


As added by P.L.1-2005, SEC.20. Amended by P.L.84-2007, SEC.2. 

IC 20-36-2-2 School corporation high ability programs; criteria 
Sec. 2. A governing body shall develop and periodically update a local plan to provide appropriate educational experiences to high ability students in the school corporation in kindergarten through grade 12. The plan must include the following components: 
(1) The establishment of a broad based planning committee that meets periodically to review the local education authority's plan 
 for high ability students. The committee must have representatives from diverse groups representing the school and community. 
(2) 
Student assessments that identify high ability students using multifaceted assessments to ensure that students not identified by traditional assessments because of economic disadvantage, cultural background, underachievement, or disabilities are included. The assessments must identify students with high abilities in the general intellectual domain and specific academic domains. The results of an assessment under this subdivision must be recorded with the student test number assigned to a student. 

(3) 
Professional development. 

(4) 
Development and implementation of local services for high ability students, including appropriately differentiated curriculum and instruction in the core academic areas designated by the state board for each grade consistent with federal, state, local, and private funding sources. 

(5) 
Evaluation of the local program for high ability students. 

(6) 
Best practices to increase the number of participants in high ability student programs who are from racial and ethnic groups that have been underrepresented in those programs. 


As added by P.L.1-2005, SEC.20. Amended by P.L.84-2007, SEC.3; P.L.173-2009, SEC.2. 
 

