IC 20-34-6 Chapter 6. Student Safety Reporting 
IC 20-34-6-1 School corporation reports; department reports 
Sec. 1. (a) By July 1 of each year, each school corporation shall submit a report to the department detailing the following information for the current school year for each school in the school corporation and for the entire school corporation: 
(1) 
The number of arrests of students on school corporation property, including arrests made by law enforcement officers, security guards, school safety specialists, and other school corporation employees, and any citizen arrests. 

(2) 
The offenses for which students were arrested on school corporation property. 

(3) 
The number of contacts with law enforcement personnel from a school corporation employee that have resulted in arrests of students not on school corporation property. 

(4) 
Statistics concerning the age, race, and gender of students arrested on school corporation property and categorizing the statistics by offenses. 

(5) 
Whether the school corporation has established and employs a school corporation police department under IC 20-26-16, and if so, report: 

(A) 
the number of officers in the school corporation police department; and 

(B) 
the training the officers must complete. 



(6) 
If the school corporation employs private security guards to enforce rules or laws on school property, a detailed explanation of the use of private security guards by the school corporation. 

(7) 
If the school corporation has an agreement with a local law enforcement agency regarding procedures to arrest students on school property, a detailed explanation of the use of the local law enforcement agency by the school corporation. 

(8) 
The number of reported bullying incidents involving a student of the school corporation by category. However, nothing in this subdivision may be construed to require all bullying incidents to be reported to a law enforcement agency. 


(b) 
By August 1 of each year, the department shall submit a report to: 

(1) 
the legislative council; 

(2) 
the board for the coordination of programs serving vulnerable individuals established by IC 4-23-30.2-8; and 



(3) 
the criminal justice institute; providing a summary of the reports submitted to the department under subsection (a). The report to the legislative council must be in an electronic format under IC 5-14-6. 


(c) By August 1 of each year, the department must post the reports 
 described in subsections (a) and (b) on the department's Internet web site. 
As added by P.L.74-2010, SEC.3. Amended by P.L.285-2013, SEC.7; P.L.213-2015, SEC.201. 
 

