IC 22-5-3 Chapter 3. Blacklisting 
IC 22-5-3-1 Disclosure of information after employee's discharge 
Sec. 1. (a) A person who, after having discharged any employee from his service, prevents the discharged employee from obtaining employment with any other person commits a Class C infraction and is liable in penal damages to the discharged employee to be recovered by civil action; but this subsection does not prohibit a person from informing, in writing, any other person to whom the discharged employee has applied for employment a truthful statement of the reasons for the discharge. 
(b) An employer that discloses information about a current or former employee is immune from civil liability for the disclosure and the consequences proximately caused by the disclosure, unless it is proven by a preponderance of the evidence that the information disclosed was known to be false at the time the disclosure was made. 
(c) Upon written request by the prospective employee, the prospective employer will provide copies of any written communications from current or former employers that may affect the employee's possibility of employment with the prospective employer. The request must be received by the prospective employer not later than thirty (30) days after the application for employment is made to the prospective employer. (Formerly: Acts 1889, c.166, s.1.) As amended by Acts 1978, P.L.2, SEC.2227; P.L.218-1995, SEC.1. 

IC 22-5-3-2 Railroads; damages; exemplary damages 
Sec. 2. If any railway company or any other company, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation in this state shall authorize, allow or permit any of its or their agents to black-list any discharged employees, or attempt by words or writing, or any other means whatever, to prevent such discharged employee, or any employee who may have voluntarily left said company's service, from obtaining employment with any other person, or company, said company shall be liable to such employee in such sum as will fully compensate him, to which may be added exemplary damages. (Formerly: Acts 1889, c.166, s.2; Acts 1895, c.110, s.1.) As amended by P.L.8-1993, SEC.289. 
IC 22-5-3-3 Protection of employees reporting violations of federal, state, or local laws; disciplinary actions for furnishing false information; violations by employers 
Sec. 3. (a) An employee of a private employer that is under public contract may report in writing the existence of: 
 
(1) 
a violation of a federal law or regulation; 

(2) 
a violation of a state law or rule; 

(3) 
a violation of an ordinance of a political subdivision (as defined in IC 36-1-2-13); or 


(4) 
the misuse of public resources; concerning the execution of public contract first to the private employer, unless the private employer is the person whom the employee believes is committing the violation or misuse of public resources. In that case, the employee may report the violation or misuse of public resources in writing to either the private employer or to any official or agency entitled to receive a report from the state ethics commission under IC 4-2-6-4(b)(2)(J) or IC 4-2-6-4(b)(2)(K). If a good faith effort is not made to correct the problem within a reasonable time, the employee may submit a written report of the incident to any person, agency, or organization. 

(b) 
For having made a report under subsection (a), an employee may not: 

(1) 
be dismissed from employment; 

(2) 
have salary increases or employment related benefits withheld; 

(3) 
be transferred or reassigned; 

(4) 
be denied a promotion that the employee otherwise would have received; or 

(5) 
be demoted. 



(c) 
Notwithstanding subsections (a) through (b), an employee must make a reasonable attempt to ascertain the correctness of any information to be furnished and may be subject to disciplinary actions for knowingly furnishing false information, including suspension or dismissal, as determined by the employer. However, any employee disciplined under this subsection is entitled to process an appeal of the disciplinary action as a civil action in a court of general jurisdiction. 


(d) An employer who violates this section commits a Class A infraction. As added by P.L.32-1987, SEC.3. Amended by P.L.9-1990, SEC.14; P.L.149-2016, SEC.67. 
 

