IC 20-20-37 Chapter 37. Dropout Prevention 
IC 20-20-37-1 "Fund" 
Sec. 1. As used in this chapter, "fund" refers to the dropout prevention program fund established by section 3 of this chapter. As added by P.L.65-2009, SEC.1. 

IC 20-20-37-2 "Program" 
Sec. 2. As used in this chapter, "program" refers to a dropout prevention program established by a school corporation. As added by P.L.65-2009, SEC.1. 

IC 20-20-37-3 Establishment of fund 
Sec. 3. (a) The dropout prevention program fund is established to provide: 
(1) 
money for the department; and 

(2) 
grants to school corporations or a local nonprofit fiscal agent acting as intermediary on behalf of multiple school corporations; 


to establish and operate programs to identify students who are at risk of dropping out of school and to provide appropriate interventions for those students. 
(b) The department shall administer the fund. 
(c) 
The expenses of administering the fund shall be paid from money in the fund. 

(d) The fund consists of: 
(1) 
gifts, donations, and bequests; 

(2) 
appropriations from the general assembly; 

(3) 
grants, including federal grants and grants from private entities; 

(4) 
income derived from investing the assets of the fund; 

(5) 
funds from any other source; and 

(6) 
a combination of the resources described in subdivisions (1), (2), (3), (4), and (5). 



(e) 
The treasurer of state shall invest the money in the fund not currently needed to meet the obligations of the fund in the same manner as other public funds may be invested. 


(f) Money in the fund from sources other than state appropriations at the end of a state fiscal year does not revert to the state general fund. As added by P.L.65-2009, SEC.1. 
IC 20-20-37-4 Fund to provide assistance to school corporations 
 
Sec. 4. The department may use money from the fund to provide assistance to school corporations in: 
(1) 
identifying students who are at risk of dropping out of school; and 

(2) 
developing strategies and appropriate interventions to prevent identified students from dropping out of school. 


As added by P.L.65-2009, SEC.1. 

IC 20-20-37-5 Eligibility for grants 
Sec. 5. (a) To be eligible for a grant under this chapter, a school corporation or two (2) or more school corporations under a joint agreement must submit, before the application deadline, a properly completed grant application provided by the department. 
(b) The applying school corporation must include at least the following information in the school corporation's application: 
(1) 
A detailed description of the proposed program. 

(2) 
The extent to which the applying school corporation intends to include appropriate community resources not directly affiliated with the applying school corporation in the program. 

(3) 
The estimated cost of implementing the program. 

(4) 
Documented support for the program by the superintendent of each participating school corporation. 

(5) 
The goals established for increasing the graduation rate and decreasing the dropout rate in each participating school corporation. 

(6) 
Accurate baseline data on the graduation rate and dropout rate for each participating school corporation for the preceding three (3) consecutive years. 

(7) 
Accountability metrics for the program that demonstrate how the program's success is measured. Metrics may include the following: 

(A) 
Attendance and truancy rates of at-risk student populations. 

(B) 
Course credits earned by at-risk students. 

(C) 
The number of students who are on schedule to complete high school within four (4) years. 



(8) 
Any other pertinent information required by the department. 


As added by P.L.65-2009, SEC.1. 

IC 20-20-37-6 Award of grants 
Sec. 6. The department shall approve a program based on at least the following criteria: 
(1) 
The relative need for the establishment of a dropout prevention program as outlined by the applying school corporation. 

(2) 
The overall quality of the applying school corporation's 


 program proposal, including the extent to which the applying school corporation demonstrates a willingness to include as a part of the program appropriate community resources not directly affiliated with the applying school corporation. 
(3) The availability of money in the fund. 
As added by P.L.65-2009, SEC.1. 

IC 20-20-37-7 Annual reports 
Sec. 7. (a) Not later than June 1 of each school year, each participating school corporation shall submit to the department a written report, on forms developed by the department, outlining the activities undertaken as part of the school corporation's program. 
(b) Not later than November 1 of each year, the department shall submit a comprehensive report to the governor and the general assembly on dropout prevention programs, including the department's conclusions on the impact of different types of programs in increasing the graduation rate in a school corporation. A report submitted under this subsection to the general assembly must be in an electronic format under IC 5-14-6. 
As added by P.L.65-2009, SEC.1. 
 

