IC 20-34-4.5 Chapter 4.5. Auto-Injectable Epinephrine 
IC 20-34-4.5-1 Prescription for auto-injectable epinephrine; storage 
Sec. 1. (a) A school may fill a prescription for auto-injectable epinephrine and store the auto-injectable epinephrine in the school if a health care provider who is licensed in Indiana and whose scope of practice includes the prescribing of medication writes the prescription for auto-injectable epinephrine for the school or school district. 
(b) The school shall store the auto-injectable epinephrine in a safe location in which only school personnel have access. As added by P.L.92-2014, SEC.1. 

IC 20-34-4.5-2 Administration of auto-injectable epinephrine; school nurse; school employees; training 
Sec. 2. (a) A school nurse may administer auto-injectable epinephrine obtained under section 1 of this chapter to any of the following individuals if the individual is demonstrating signs or symptoms of life-threatening anaphylaxis and the individual does not have epinephrine at the school or the individual's prescription is not available: 
(1) 
Students at the school. 

(2) 
School personnel. 

(3) 
Visitors at the school. 


(b) School employees may administer auto-injectable epinephrine obtained under section 1 of this chapter if the following are met: 
(1) 
The school employee has voluntarily received training in: 

(A) recognizing anaphylaxis; and 

(B) 
the proper administration of auto-injectable epinephrine; by a health care provider who is licensed or certified in Indiana, for whom the administration of auto-injectable epinephrine is within the health care provider's scope of practice, who has received training in the administration of auto-injectable epinephrine, and who is knowledgeable in recognizing the symptoms of anaphylaxis and the administration of auto-injectable epinephrine. 

(2) 
The individual to whom the epinephrine is being administered is: 

(A) 
a student at the school; 

(B) 
a member of school personnel; or 

(C) 
a visitor at the school. 




As added by P.L.92-2014, SEC.1. 
IC 20-34-4.5-3 Prescribing of auto-injectable epinephrine; dispensing 
 
Sec. 3. (a) A health care provider who is licensed in Indiana and whose scope of practice includes the prescribing of medication may write a prescription, drug order, or protocol for auto-injectable epinephrine for the school or school district. 
(b) A pharmacist licensed under IC 25-26 may dispense a valid prescription, drug order, or protocol for auto-injectable epinephrine issued in the name of a school or school district. As added by P.L.92-2014, SEC.1. 

IC 20-34-4.5-4 Civil immunity; school employees; health care providers 
Sec. 4. (a) A school nurse or school employee who administers auto-injectable epinephrine in accordance with the manufacturer's guidelines and with this chapter is not liable for civil damages resulting from the administration of auto-injectable epinephrine under this chapter unless the act or omission constitutes gross negligence or willful or wanton misconduct. 
(b) A licensed health care provider who: 
(1) writes a prescription, drug order, or protocol under this chapter; or 
(2) provides training to school personnel under this chapter; is not liable for civil damages resulting from the administration of auto-injectable epinephrine under this chapter. As added by P.L.92-2014, SEC.1. 
 

