IC 20-27-11 Chapter 11. Transportation Costs 
IC 20-27-11-1 Transportation of rural charter and nonpublic school students 
Sec. 1. (a) If a student who attends: 
(1) a nonpublic school located in a school corporation; or 
(2) a charter school located in a rural school corporation; resides on or along the highway constituting the regular route of a public school bus, the governing body of the school corporation shall provide transportation for the nonpublic or charter school student on the school bus. 
(b) The transportation provided under this section must be from the home of the nonpublic or charter school student or from a point on the regular route nearest or most easily accessible to the home of the nonpublic or charter school student to and from the nonpublic or charter school or to and from the point on the regular route that is nearest or most easily accessible to the nonpublic or charter school from which the student can walk to and from the nonpublic or charter school. As added by P.L.1-2005, SEC.11. Amended by P.L.160-2012, SEC.49; P.L.220-2015, SEC.4. 

IC 20-27-11-2 Transportation cost; student living on state owned property 
Sec. 2. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), a student who resides on state owned property and attends a public school away from the student's residence shall be furnished transportation in a public school bus to and from the student's residence and the public school the student attends. Expenses for the transportation shall be paid out of the state general fund, without further appropriation, on allowance by the state superintendent. 
(b) This section does not apply to students who reside on property owned by Indiana University, Purdue University, Ball State University, or Indiana State University. As added by P.L.1-2005, SEC.11. 

IC 20-27-11-3 Transportation cost; high school student 
Sec. 3. (a) If a school corporation does not maintain or operate a high school and a high school student who resides in the school corporation is transferred to attend a high school in a contiguous school corporation, the governing bodies of the school corporations may enter into an agreement for the transportation of the student. 
(b) The agreement under subsection (a) must specify that the transportation shall be provided by the receiving school corporation and that the costs of transportation shall be paid by the transferring school corporation out of the school corporation's special school 
 funds. The costs of transportation shall be calculated from the per capita cost for each student transported and shall be mutually agreed upon by both governing bodies. Payment of transportation charges shall be made at the same time and in the same manner as payments of transfer tuition are made for transferred students. 
As added by P.L.1-2005, SEC.11. 

IC 20-27-11-4 Transportation cost; contracts 
Sec. 4. The governing body of a school corporation that transfers a student to another school corporation may contract with the receiving corporation for the provision of transportation costs for the transferred student. As added by P.L.1-2005, SEC.11. 
 

