IC 34-13-2 Chapter 2. Contract Claims Against Public Employees 
IC 34-13-2-1 Personal liability on contracts entered into within scope of employment 
Sec. 1. A present or former public employee, including a member of a board, a committee, a commission, an authority, or another instrumentality of a governmental entity, is not personally liable on contracts entered into within the scope of the employee's employment for a governmental entity unless it is clearly otherwise indicated in writing. As added by P.L.1-1998, SEC.8. Amended by P.L.192-2001, SEC.1. 

IC 34-13-2-2 Defense of state employee for claims or suits arising out of contracts 
Sec. 2. If requested to do so, the attorney general shall defend a present or former state employee against any claim or suit brought against the state employee with regard to a contract entered into for the employee's governmental entity. The attorney general may employ other counsel to aid in defending or settling the claim or suit. As added by P.L.1-1998, SEC.8. 
IC 34-13-2-3 Judgment or settlement as bar to action against employee; judgments for claims against employee acting within scope of employment; costs and fees 
Sec. 3. (a) A judgment rendered with respect to or a settlement made by a governmental entity bars an action by the claimant against an employee whose conduct gave rise to the claim resulting in that judgment or settlement. 
(b) The governmental entity shall pay any judgment, compromise, or settlement of a claim or suit against an employee when: 
(1) 
the act or omission causing the loss is within the scope of the employee's employment; and 

(2) 
the: 

(A) 
governor, in the case of a claim or suit against a state employee; or 

(B) 
the governing body of the political subdivision, in the case of a claim or suit against an employee of a political subdivision; 




determines that paying the judgment, compromise, or settlement is in the best interest of the governmental entity. 
(c) The governmental entity shall pay all costs and fees incurred by or on behalf of an employee in defense of a claim or suit for a loss occurring because of acts or omissions within the scope of the employee's employment, regardless of whether the employee can or 
 cannot be held personally liable for the loss. 
(d) This chapter shall not be construed as: 
(1) 
a waiver of the eleventh amendment to the Constitution of the United States; 

(2) 
consent by the state of Indiana or its employees to be sued in any federal court; or 

(3) 
consent to be sued in any state court beyond the boundaries of Indiana. 


As added by P.L.1-1998, SEC.8. 
 

