IC 36-1.5-5 
Chapter 5. Cooperative Agreements and Transfers of Responsibilities 
IC 36-1.5-5-1 Cooperative agreements; method to enter cooperative agreements 
Sec. 1. Notwithstanding any other law, two (2) or more political subdivisions may enter into a cooperative agreement under this chapter by using the same procedures set forth in this article for the initiation and approval of a reorganization under this article. A cooperative agreement under this chapter may be initiated and approved only in the manner set forth in this article for the initiation and approval of a reorganization under this article. As added by P.L.186-2006, SEC.4. 

IC 36-1.5-5-2 Required elements of cooperative agreements 
Sec. 2. (a) A cooperative agreement under this chapter must provide at least for the following: 
(1) 
Its duration. 

(2) 
Its purpose. 

(3) 
The manner of financing, staffing, and supplying any joint undertaking and of establishing and maintaining a budget for any joint undertaking that is the subject of the cooperative agreement. 

(4) 
The methods that may be employed in accomplishing the partial or complete termination of the cooperative agreement and for disposing of property upon partial or complete termination of the cooperative agreement. 

(5) 
The manner in which the cooperative agreement is to be administered. 

(6) 
The manner of acquiring, holding, and disposing of real and personal property that is the subject of the cooperative agreement. 


(b) A cooperative agreement may include any condition or term that is necessary or appropriate. As added by P.L.186-2006, SEC.4. 

IC 36-1.5-5-3 Transfer of functions of employee, department, or elected office 
Sec. 3. (a) The cooperative agreement may transfer the functions of an employee or a department of a political subdivision, including an elected office, to another employee or department of any political subdivision that has entered into the cooperative agreement. 
(b) 
The functions of an elected office may be transferred only to another elected office. 

(c) 
The cooperative agreement may provide for the abolishment of an elected office that is not required by the Constitution of the 


 State of Indiana. 
As added by P.L.186-2006, SEC.4. 

IC 36-1.5-5-4 Sharing of services of employees 
Sec. 4. A political subdivision may enter into a cooperative agreement with an entity to share the services of an employee employed by any party to the agreement. 
As added by P.L.186-2006, SEC.4. 

IC 36-1.5-5-5 Appropriation and pledge of revenues 
Sec. 5. A cooperative agreement may provide that a political subdivision: 
(1) 
may appropriate and pledge any legally available revenues to the payment of the bonds, leases, or other obligations of another political subdivision that is a party to the cooperative agreement; and 

(2) 
will appropriate legally available revenues for any other 


payment under the cooperative agreement; if the political subdivision's fiscal body finds that it is necessary, desirable, and in the best interests of the residents of that political subdivision. 
As added by P.L.186-2006, SEC.4. 

IC 36-1.5-5-6 Limit on actions under cooperative agreement 
Sec. 6. (a) A cooperative agreement may not permit an entity or another instrumentality established to administer the cooperative agreement to take any action that at least one (1) of the parties to the cooperative agreement could not carry out on its own. 
(b) A cooperative agreement may permit the transfer of money from one (1) fund of a political subdivision for a use authorized by the cooperative agreement. 
As added by P.L.186-2006, SEC.4. 

IC 36-1.5-5-7 Effective date of cooperative agreement transferring functions of elected office 
Sec. 7. (a) A cooperative agreement transferring the functions of an elected office becomes effective only at the end of the term of the incumbent that holds the office. 
(b) Any law, rule, or agreement that requires or permits an action by an employee or elected officer after the functions of the employee or elected officer are transferred shall be treated as referring to the employee or elected officer to which the functions have been transferred by the cooperative agreement. 
As added by P.L.186-2006, SEC.4. 
 

IC 36-1.5-5-8 Adjustment of property tax levies, property tax rates, and budgets 
Sec. 8. The department of local government finance shall adjust as necessary tax rates, tax levies, and budgets of political subdivisions that enter into a cooperative agreement under this chapter in the same manner as tax rates, tax levies, and budgets are adjusted under IC 36-1.5-3 for reorganizing political subdivisions. As added by P.L.186-2006, SEC.4. 
 

