A dvanc ed Searc h

[Notice to Readers]
TITLE 34 EDUCATION
SUBTITLE B REGULATIONS OF THE OFFICES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
CHAPTER I -- OFFICE FOR CIVIL RIGHTS, DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
PART 104 -- NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES
RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
Subpart A -- General Provisions
Sec.
104.1 Purpose.
104.2 Application.
104.3 Definitions.
104.4 Discrimination prohibited.
104.5 Assurances required.
104.6 Remedial action, voluntary action, and self‑evaluation.
104.7 Designation of responsible employee and adoption of grievance procedures.
104.8 Notice.
104.9 Administrative requirements for small recipients.
104.10 Effect of state or local law or other requirements and effect of employment opportunities.
Subpart B -- Employment Practices
104.11 Discrimination prohibited.
104.12 Reasonable accommodation.
104.13 Employment criteria.
104.14 Preemployment inquiries.
Subpart C -- Accessibility
104.21 Discrimination prohibited.
104.22 Existing facilities.
104.23 New construction.

Subpart D -- Preschool, Elementary, and Secondary Education
104.31 Application of this subpart.
104.32 Location and notification.
104.33 Free appropriate public education.
104.34 Educational setting.
104.35 Evaluation and placement.
104.36 Procedural safeguards.
104.37 Nonacademic services.
104.38 Preschool and adult education.
104.39 Private education.
Subpart E -- Postsecondary Education
104.41 Application of this subpart.
104.42 Admissions and recruitment.
104.43 Treatment of students; general.
104.44 Academic adjustments.
104.45 Housing.
104.46 Financial and employment assistance to students.
104.47 Nonacademic services.
Subpart F -- Health, Welfare, and Social Services
104.51 Application of this subpart.
104.52 Health, welfare, and other social services.
104.53 Drug and alcohol addicts.
104.54 Education of institutionalized persons.
Subpart G -- Procedures
104.61 Procedures.
APPENDIX A TO PART 104 ANALYSIS OF FINAL REGULATION
APPENDIX B TO PART 104 GUIDELINES FOR ELIMINATING DISCRIMINATION AND DENIAL OF SERVICES
ON THE BASIS OF RACE, COLOR, NATIONAL ORIGIN, SEX, AND HANDICAP IN VOCATIONAL EDUCATION
PROGRAMS [NOTE]
AUTHORITY: 20 U.S.C. 1405; 29 U.S.C. 794.

SOURCE: 45 FR 30936, May 9, 1980, unless otherwise noted.
Subpart A -- General Provisions
104.1 Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to effectuate section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, which is designed to eliminate
discrimination on the basis of handicap in any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.
104.2 Application.
This part applies to each recipient of Federal financial assistance from the Department of Education and to the program or
activity that receives such assistance.
104.3 Definitions.
As used in this part, the term:
(a) The Act means the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Pub. L. 93‑112, as amended by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1974,
Pub. L. 93‑516, 29 U.S.C. 794.
(b) Section 504 means section 504 of the Act.
(c) Education of the Handicapped Act means that statute as amended by the Education for all Handicapped Children Act of
1975, Pub. L. 94‑142, 20 U.S.C. 1401 et seq.
(d) Department means the Department of Education.
(e) Assistant Secretary means the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights of the Department of Education.
(f) Recipient means any state or its political subdivision, any instrumentality of a state or its political subdivision, any public or
private agency, institution, organization, or other entity, or any person to which Federal financial assistance is extended directly or
through another recipient, including any successor, assignee, or transferee of a recipient, but excluding the ultimate beneficiary of
the assistance.
(g) Applicant for assistance means one who submits an application, request, or plan required to be approved by a Department
official or by a recipient as a condition to becoming a recipient.
(h) Federal financial assistance means any grant, loan, contract (other than a procurement contract or a contract of insurance
or guaranty), or any other arrangement by which the Department provides or otherwise makes available assistance in the form of:
(1) Funds;
(2) Services of Federal personnel; or
(3) Real and personal property or any interest in or use of such property, including:
(i) Transfers or leases of such property for less than fair market value or for reduced consideration; and
(ii) Proceeds from a subsequent transfer or lease of such property if the Federal share of its fair market value is not returned to
the Federal Government.
(i) Facility means all or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, or other real or personal
property or interest in such property.
(j) Handicapped person -- (1) Handicapped persons means any person who (i) has a physical or mental impairment which

substantially limits one or more major life activities, (ii) has a record of such an impairment, or (iii) is regarded as having such an
impairment.
(2) As used in paragraph (j)(1) of this section, the phrase:
(i) Physical or mental impairment means (A) any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical
loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory,
including speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive, digestive, genito‑urinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or (B)
any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and
specific learning disabilities.
(ii) Major life activities means functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing,
speaking, breathing, learning, and working.
(iii) Has a record of such an impairment means has a history of, or has been misclassified as having, a mental or physical
impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.
(iv) Is regarded as having an impairment means (A) has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit major
life activities but that is treated by a recipient as constituting such a limitation; (B) has a physical or mental impairment that
substantially limits major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward such impairment; or (C) has none of the
impairments defined in paragraph (j)(2)(i) of this section but is treated by a recipient as having such an impairment.
(k) Program or activity means all of the operations of-(1)(i) A department, agency, special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a State or of a local government; or
(ii) The entity of such State or local government that distributes such assistance and each such department or agency (and each
other State or local government entity) to which the assistance is extended, in the case of assistance to a State or local
government;
(2)(i) A college, university, or other postsecondary institution, or a public system of higher education; or
(ii) A local educational agency (as defined in 20 U.S.C. 8801), system of vocational education, or other school system;
(3)(i) An entire corporation, partnership, or other private organization, or an entire sole proprietorship-(A) If assistance is extended to such corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship as a whole; or
(B) Which is principally engaged in the business of providing education, health care, housing, social services, or parks and
recreation; or
(ii) The entire plant or other comparable, geographically separate facility to which Federal financial assistance is extended, in the
case of any other corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship; or
(4) Any other entity which is established by two or more of the entities described in paragraph (k)(1), (2), or (3) of this section;
any part of which is extended Federal financial assistance.
(Authority: 29 U.S.C. 794(b))
(l) Qualified handicapped person means:
(1) With respect to employment, a handicapped person who, with reasonable accommodation, can perform the essential
functions of the job in question;
(2) With respect to public preschool elementary, secondary, or adult educational services, a handicappped person (i) of an age

during which nonhandicapped persons are provided such services, (ii) of any age during which it is mandatory under state law to
provide such services to handicapped persons, or (iii) to whom a state is required to provide a free appropriate public education
under section 612 of the Education of the Handicapped Act; and
(3) With respect to postsecondary and vocational education services, a handicapped person who meets the academic and
technical standards requisite to admission or participation in the recipient's education program or activity;
(4) With respect to other services, a handicapped person who meets the essential eligibility requirements for the receipt of such
services.
(m) Handicap means any condition or characteristic that renders a person a handicapped person as defined in paragraph (j) of
this section.
104.4 Discrimination prohibited.
(a) General. No qualified handicapped person shall, on the basis of handicap, be excluded from participation in, be denied the
benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activitiy which receives Federal financial
assistance.
(b) Discriminatory actions prohibited. (1) A recipient, in providing any aid, benefit, or service, may not, directly or through
contractual, licensing, or other arrangements, on the basis of handicap:
(i) Deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service;
(ii) Afford a qualified handicapped person an opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service that is not
equal to that afforded others;
(iii) Provide a qualified handicapped person with an aid, benefit, or service that is not as effective as that provided to others;
(iv) Provide different or separate aid, benefits, or services to handicapped persons or to any class of handicapped persons unless
such action is necessary to provide qualified handicapped persons with aid, benefits, or services that are as effective as those
provided to others;
(v) Aid or perpetuate discrimination against a qualified handicapped person by providing significant assistance to an agency,
organization, or person that discriminates on the basis of handicap in providing any aid, benefit, or service to beneficiaries of the
recipients program or activity;
(vi) Deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate as a member of planning or advisory boards; or
(vii) Otherwise limit a qualified handicapped person in the enjoyment of any right, privilege, advantage, or opportunity enjoyed
by others receiving an aid, benefit, or service.
(2) For purposes of this part, aids, benefits, and services, to be equally effective, are not required to produce the identical result
or level of achievement for handicapped and nonhandicapped persons, but must afford handicapped persons equal opportunity
to obtain the same result, to gain the same benefit, or to reach the same level of achievement, in the most integrated setting
appropriate to the person's needs.
(3) Despite the existence of separate or different aid, benefits, or services provided in accordance with this part, a recipient may
not deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate in such aid, benefits, or services that are not separate or
different.
(4) A recipient may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangements, utilize criteria or methods of administration (i) that
have the effect of subjecting qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap, (ii) that have the purpose
or effect of defeating or substantially impairing accomplishment of the objectives of the recipient's program or activity with
respect to handicapped persons, or (iii) that perpetuate the discrimination of another recipient if both recipients are subject to

common administrative control or are agencies of the same State.
(5) In determining the site or location of a facility, an applicant for assistance or a recipient may not make selections (i) that have
the effect of excluding handicapped persons from, denying them the benefits of, or otherwise subjecting them to discrimination
under any program or activity that receives Federal financial assistance or (ii) that have the purpose or effect of defeating or
substantially impairing the accomplishment of the objectives of the program or activity with respect to handicapped persons.
(6) As used in this section, the aid, benefit, or service provided under a program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance
includes any aid, benefit, or service provided in or through a facility that has been constructed, expanded, altered, leased or
rented, or otherwise acquired, in whole or in part, with Federal financial assistance.
(c) Aid, benefits or services limited by Federal law. The exclusion of nonhandicapped persons from aid, benefits, or services
limited by Federal statute or executive order to handicapped persons or the exclusion of a specific class of handicapped persons
from aid, benefits, or services limited by Federal statute or executive order to a different class of handicapped persons is not
prohibited by this part.
104.5 Assurances required.
(a) Assurances. An applicant for Federal financial assistance to which this part applies shall submit an assurance, on a form
specified by the Assistant Secretary, that the program or activity will be operated in compliance with this part. An applicant may
incorporate these assurances by reference in subsequent applications to the Department.
(b) Duration of obligation. (1) In the case of Federal financial assistance extended in the form of real property or to provide
real property or structures on the property, the assurance will obligate the recipient or, in the case of a subsequent transfer, the
transferee, for the period during which the real property or structures are used for the purpose for which Federal financial
assistance is extended or for another purpose involving the provision of similar services or benefits.
(2) In the case of Federal financial assistance extended to provide personal property, the assurance will obligate the recipient for
the period during which it retains ownership or possession of the property.
(3) In all other cases the assurance will obligate the recipient for the period during which Federal financial assistance is extended.
(c) Covenants. (1) Where Federal financial assistance is provided in the form of real property or interest in the property from
the Department, the instrument effecting or recording this transfer shall contain a covenant running with the land to assure
nondiscrimination for the period during which the real property is used for a purpose for which the Federal financial assistance is
extended or for another purpose involving the provision of similar services or benefits.
(2) Where no transfer of property is involved but property is purchased or improved with Federal financial assistance, the
recipient shall agree to include the covenant described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section in the instrument effecting or recording
any subsequent transfer of the property.
(3) Where Federal financial assistance is provided in the form of real property or interest in the property from the Department,
the covenant shall also include a condition coupled with a right to be reserved by the Department to revert title to the property in
the event of a breach of the covenant. If a transferee of real property proposes to mortgage or otherwise encumber the real
property as security for financing construction of new, or improvement of existing, facilities on the property for the purposes for
which the property was transferred, the Assistant Secretary may, upon request of the transferee and if necessary to accomplish
such financing and upon such conditions as he or she deems appropriate, agree to forbear the exercise of such right to revert title
for so long as the lien of such mortgage or other encumbrance remains effective.
104.6 Remedial action, voluntary action, and self‑evaluation.
(a) Remedial action. (1) If the Assistant Secretary finds that a recipient has discriminated against persons on the basis of
handicap in violation of section 504 or this part, the recipient shall take such remedial action as the Assistant Secretary deems
necessary to overcome the effects of the discrimination.

(2) Where a recipient is found to have discriminated against persons on the basis of handicap in violation of section 504 or this
part and where another recipient exercises control over the recipient that has discriminated, the Assistant Secretary, where
appropriate, may require either or both recipients to take remedial action.
(3) The Assistant Secretary may, where necessary to overcome the effects of discrimination in violation of section 504 or this
part, require a recipient to take remedial action (i) with respect to handicapped persons who are no longer participants in the
recipient's program or activity but who were participants in the program or activity when such discrimination occurred or (ii) with
respect to handicapped persons who would have been participants in the program or activity had the discrimination not
occurred.
(b) Voluntary action. A recipient may take steps, in addition to any action that is required by this part, to overcome the effects
of conditions that resulted in limited participation in the recipient's program or activity by qualified handicapped persons.
(c) Self‑evaluation. (1) A recipient shall, within one year of the effective date of this part:
(i) Evaluate, with the assistance of interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped
persons, its current policies and practices and the effects thereof that do not or may not meet the requirements of this part;
(ii) Modify, after consultation with interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped
persons, any policies and practices that do not meet the requirements of this part; and
(iii) Take, after consultation with interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped
persons, appropriate remedial steps to eliminate the effects of any discrimination that resulted from adherence to these policies
and practices.
(2) A recipient that employs fifteen or more persons shall, for at least three years following completion of the evaluation required
under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, maintain on file, make available for public inspection, and provide to the Assistant
Secretary upon request:
(i) A list of the interested persons consulted,
(ii) A description of areas examined and any problems identified, and
(iii) A description of any modifications made and of any remedial steps taken.
104.7 Designation of responsible employee and adoption of grievance procedures.
(a) Designation of responsible employee. A recipient that employs fifteen or more persons shall designate at least one person
to coordinate its efforts to comply with this part.
(b) Adoption of grievance procedures. A recipient that employs fifteen or more persons shall adopt grievance procedures that
incorporate appropriate due process standards and that provide for the prompt and equitable resolution of complaints alleging
any action prohibited by this part. Such procedures need not be established with respect to complaints from applicants for
employment or from applicants for admission to postsecondary educational institutions.
104.8 Notice.
(a) A recipient that employs fifteen or more persons shall take appropriate initial and continuing steps to notify participants,
beneficiaries, applicants, and employees, including those with impaired vision or hearing, and unions or professional organizations
holding collective bargaining or professional agreements with the recipient that it does not discriminate on the basis of handicap in
violation of section 504 and this part. The notification shall state, where appropriate, that the recipient does not discriminate in
admission or access to, or treatment or employment in, its program or activity. The notification shall also include an identification
of the responsible employee designated pursuant to 104.7(a). A recipient shall make the initial notification required by this
paragraph within 90 days of the effective date of this part. Methods of initial and continuing notification may include the posting
of notices, publication in newspapers and magazines, placement of notices in recipients' publication, and distribution of

memoranda or other written communications.
(b) If a recipient publishes or uses recruitment materials or publications containing general information that it makes available to
participants, beneficiaries, applicants, or employees, it shall include in those materials or publications a statement of the policy
described in paragraph (a) of this section. A recipient may meet the requirement of this paragraph either by including appropriate
inserts in existing materials and publications or by revising and reprinting the materials and publications.
104.9 Administrative requirements for small recipients.
The Assistant Secretary may require any recipient with fewer than fifteen employees, or any class of such recipients, to comply
with 104.7 and 104.8, in whole or in part, when the Assistant Secretary finds a violation of this part or finds that such
compliance will not significantly impair the ability of the recipient or class of recipients to provide benefits or services.
104.10 Effect of state or local law or other requirements and effect of employment opportunities.
(a) The obligation to comply with this part is not obviated or alleviated by the existence of any state or local law or other
requirement that, on the basis of handicap, imposes prohibitions or limits upon the eligibility of qualified handicapped persons to
receive services or to practice any occupation or profession.
(b) The obligation to comply with this part is not obviated or alleviated because employment opportunities in any occupation or
profession are or may be more limited for handicapped persons than for nonhandicapped persons.
Subpart B -- Employment Practices
104.11 Discrimination prohibited.
(a) General. (1) No qualified handicapped person shall, on the basis of handicap, be subjected to discrimination in employment
under any program or activity to which this part applies.
(2) A recipient that receives assistance under the Education of the Handicapped Act shall take positive steps to employ and
advance in employment qualified handicapped persons in programs or activities assisted under that Act.
(3) A recipient shall make all decisions concerning employment under any program or activity to which this part applies in a
manner which ensures that discrimination on the basis of handicap does not occur and may not limit, segregate, or classify
applicants or employees in any way that adversely affects their opportunities or status because of handicap.
(4) A recipient may not participate in a contractual or other relationship that has the effect of subjecting qualified handicapped
applicants or employees to discrimination prohibited by this subpart. The relationships referred to in this paragraph include
relationships with employment and referral agencies, with labor unions, with organizations providing or administering fringe
benefits to employees of the recipient, and with organizations providing training and apprenticeships.
(b) Specific activities. The provisions of this subpart apply to:
(1) Recruitment, advertising, and the processing of applications for employment;
(2) Hiring, upgrading, promotion, award of tenure, demotion, transfer, layoff, termination, right of return from layoff and rehiring;
(3) Rates of pay or any other form of compensation and changes in compensation;
(4) Job assignments, job classifications, organizational structures, position descriptions, lines of progression, and seniority lists;
(5) Leaves of absense, sick leave, or any other leave;
(6) Fringe benefits available by virtue of employment, whether or not administered by the recipient;
(7) Selection and financial support for training, including apprenticeship, professional meetings, conferences, and other related

activities, and selection for leaves of absence to pursue training;
(8) Employer sponsored activities, including those that are social or recreational; and
(9) Any other term, condition, or privilege of employment.
(c) A recipient's obligation to comply with this subpart is not affected by any inconsistent term of any collective bargaining
agreement to which it is a party.
104.12 Reasonable accommodation.
(a) A recipient shall make reasonable accommodation to the known physical or mental limitations of an otherwise qualified
handicapped applicant or employee unless the recipient can demonstrate that the accommodation would impose an undue
hardship on the operation of its program or activity.
(b) Reasonable accommodation may include:
(1) Making facilities used by employees readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons, and
(2) Job restructuring, part‑time or modified work schedules, acquisition or modification of equipment or devices, the provision of
readers or interpreters, and other similar actions.
(c) In determining pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section whether an accommodation would impose an undue hardship on the
operation of a recipient's program or activity, factors to be considered include:
(1) The overall size of the recipient's program or activity with respect to number of employees, number and type of facilities, and
size of budget;
(2) The type of the recipient's operation, including the composition and structure of the recipient's workforce; and
(3) The nature and cost of the accommodation needed.
(d) A recipient may not deny any employment opportunity to a qualified handicapped employee or applicant if the basis for the
denial is the need to make reasonable accommodation to the physical or mental limitations of the employee or applicant.
104.13 Employment criteria.
(a) A recipient may not make use of any employment test or other selection criterion that screens out or tends to screen out
handicapped persons or any class of handicapped persons unless:
(1) The test score or other selection criterion, as used by the recipient, is shown to be job‑related for the position in question,
and
(2) Alternative job‑related tests or criteria that do not screen out or tend to screen out as many handicapped persons are not
shown by the Director to be available.
(b) A recipient shall select and administer tests concerning employment so as best to ensure that, when administered to an
applicant or employee who has a handicap that impairs sensory, manual, or speaking skills, the test results accurately reflect the
applicant's or employee's job skills, aptitude, or whatever other factor the test purports to measure, rather than reflecting the
applicant's or employee's impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills (except where those skills are the factors that the test
purports to measure).
104.14 Preemployment inquiries.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, a recipient may not conduct a preemployment medical
examination or may not make preemployment inquiry of an applicant as to whether the applicant is a handicapped person or as

to the nature or severity of a handicap. A recipient may, however, make preemployment inquiry into an applicant's ability to
perform job‑related functions.
(b) When a recipient is taking remedial action to correct the effects of past discrimination pursuant to 104.6 (a), when a
recipient is taking voluntary action to overcome the effects of conditions that resulted in limited participation in its federally
assisted program or activity pursuant to 104.6(b), or when a recipient is taking affirmative action pursuant to section 503 of the
Act, the recipient may invite applicants for employment to indicate whether and to what extent they are handicapped, Provided,
That:
(1) The recipient states clearly on any written questionnaire used for this purpose or makes clear orally if no written questionnaire
is used that the information requested is intended for use solely in connection with its remedial action obligations or its voluntary
or affirmative action efforts; and
(2) The recipient states clearly that the information is being requested on a voluntary basis, that it will be kept confidential as
provided in paragraph (d) of this section, that refusal to provide it will not subject the applicant or employee to any adverse
treatment, and that it will be used only in accordance with this part.
(c) Nothing in this section shall prohibit a recipient from conditioning an offer of employment on the results of a medical
examination conducted prior to the employee's entrance on duty, Provided, That:
(1) All entering employees are subjected to such an examination regardless of handicap, and
(2) The results of such an examination are used only in accordance with the requirements of this part.
(d) Information obtained in accordance with this section as to the medical condition or history of the applicant shall be collected
and maintained on separate forms that shall be accorded confidentiality as medical records, except that:
(1) Supervisors and managers may be informed regarding restrictions on the work or duties of handicapped persons and
regarding necessary accommodations;
(2) First aid and safety personnel may be informed, where appropriate, if the condition might require emergency treatment; and
(3) Government officials investigating compliance with the Act shall be provided relevant information upon request.
Subpart C--Accessibility
104.21 Discrimination prohibited.
No qualified handicapped person shall, because a recipient's facilities are inaccessible to or unusable by handicapped persons,
be denied the benefits of, be excluded from participation in, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or
activity to which this part applies.
104.22 Existing facilities.
(a) Accessibility. A recipient shall operate its program or activity so that when each part is viewed in its entirety, it is readily
accessible to handicapped persons. This paragraph does not require a recipient to make each of its existing facilities or every
part of a facility accessible to and usable by handicapped persons.
(b) Methods. A recipient may comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section through such means as redesign of
equipment, reassignment of classes or other services to accessible buildings, assignment of aides to beneficiaries, home visits,
delivery of health, welfare, or other social services at alternate accessible sites, alteration of existing facilities and construction of
new facilities in conformance with the requirements of 104.23, or any other methods that result in making its program or activity
accessible to handicapped persons. A recipient is not required to make structural changes in existing facilities where other
methods are effective in achieving compliance with paragraph (a) of this section. In choosing among available methods for
meeting the requirement of paragraph (a) of this section, a recipient shall give priority to those methods that serve handicapped

persons in the most integrated setting appropriate.
(c) Small health, welfare, or other social service providers. If a recipient with fewer than fifteen employees that provides
health, welfare, or other social services finds, after consultation with a handicapped person seeking its services, that there is no
method of complying with paragraph (a) of this section other than making a significant alteration in its existing facilities, the
recipient may, as an alternative, refer the handicapped person to other providers of those services that are accessible.
(d) Time period. A recipient shall comply with the requirement of paragraph (a) of this section within sixty days of the effective
date of this part except that where structural changes in facilities are necessary, such changes shall be made within three years of
the effective date of this part, but in any event as expeditiously as possible.
(e) Transition plan. In the event that structural changes to facilities are necessary to meet the requirement of paragraph (a) of
this section, a recipient shall develop, within six months of the effective date of this part, a transition plan setting forth the steps
necessary to complete such changes. The plan shall be developed with the assistance of interested persons, including
handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons. A copy of the transition plan shall be made available
for public inspection. The plan shall, at a minimum:
(1) Identify physical obstacles in the recipient's facilities that limit the accessibility of its program or activity to handicappped
persons;
(2) Describe in detail the methods that will be used to make the facilities accessible;
(3) Specify the schedule for taking the steps necessary to achieve full accessibility in order to comply with paragraph (a) of this
section and, if the time period of the transition plan is longer than one year, identify the steps of that will be taken during each
year of the transition period; and
(4) Indicate the person responsible for implementation of the plan.
(f) Notice. The recipient shall adopt and implement procedures to ensure that interested persons, including persons with impaired
vision or hearing, can obtain information as to the existence and location of services, activities, and facilities that are accessible to
and usuable by handicapped persons.
104.23 New construction.
(a) Design and construction. Each facility or part of a facility constructed by, on behalf of, or for the use of a recipient shall be
designed and constructed in such manner that the facility or part of the facility is readily accessible to and usable by handicapped
persons, if the construction was commenced after the effective date of this part.
(b) Alteration. Each facility or part of a facility which is altered by, on behalf of, or for the use of a recipient after the effective
date of this part in a manner that affects or could affect the usability of the facility or part of the facility shall, to the maximum
extent feasible, be altered in such manner that the altered portion of the facility is readily accessible to and usable by handicapped
persons.
(c) Conformance with Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards. (1) Effective as of January 18, 1991, design, construction,
or alteration of buildings in conformance with sections 3‑8 of the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards (UFAS) (Appendix A
to 41 CFR subpart 101‑19.6) shall be deemed to comply with the requirements of this section with respect to those buildings.
Departures from particular technical and scoping requirements of UFAS by the use of other methods are permitted where
substantially equivalent or greater access to and usability of the building is provided.
(2) For purposes of this section, section 4.1.6(1)(g) of UFAS shall be interpreted to exempt from the requirements of UFAS
only mechanical rooms and other spaces that, because of their intended use, will not require accessibility to the public or
beneficiaries or result in the employment or residence therein of persons with phusical handicaps.
(3) This section does not require recipients to make building alterations that have little likelihood of being accomplished without

removing or altering a load‑bearing structural member.
[45 FR 30936, May 9, 1980; 45 FR 37426, June 3, 1980, as amended at 55 FR 52138, 52141, Dec. 19, 1990]
Subpart D -- Preschool, Elementary, and Secondary Education
104.31 Application of this subpart.
Subpart D applies to preschool, elementary, secondary, and adult education programs or activities that receive Federal financial
assistance and to recipients that operate, or that receive Federal financial assistance for the operation of, such programs or
activities.
104.32 Location and notification.
A recipient that operates a public elementary or secondary education program or activity shall annually:
(a) Undertake to identify and locate every qualified handicapped person residing in the recipient's jurisdiction who is not
receiving a public education; and
(b) Take appropriate steps to notify handicapped persons and their parents or guardians of the recipient's duty under this
subpart.
104.33 Free appropriate public education.
(a) General. A recipient that operates a public elementary or secondary education program or activity shall provide a free
appropriate public education to each qualified handicapped person who is in the recipient's jurisdiction, regardless of the nature
or severity of the person's handicap.
(b) Appropriate education. (1) For the purpose of this subpart, the provision of an appropriate education is the provision of
regular or special education and related aids and services that (i) are designed to meet individual educational needs of
handicapped persons as adequately as the needs of nonhandicapped persons are met and (ii) are based upon adherence to
procedures that satisfy the requirements of 104.34, 104.35, and 104.36.
(2) Implementation of an Individualized Education Program developed in accordance with the Education of the Handicapped
Act is one means of meeting the standard established in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(3) A recipient may place a handicapped person or refer such a person for aid, benefits, or services other than those that it
operates or provides as its means of carrying out the requirements of this subpart. If so, the recipient remains responsible for
ensuring that the requirements of this subpart are met with respect to any handicapped person so placed or referred.
(c) Free education -- (1) General. For the purpose of this section, the provision of a free education is the provision of
educational and related services without cost to the handicapped person or to his or her parents or guardian, except for those
fees that are imposed on non-handicapped persons or their parents or guardian. It may consist either of the provision of free
services or, if a recipient places a handicapped person or refers such person for aid, benefits, or services not operated or
provided by the recipient as its means of carrying out the requirements of this subpart, of payment for the costs of the aid,
benefits, or services. Funds available from any public or private agency may be used to meet the requirements of this subpart.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to relieve an insurer or similar third party from an otherwise valid obligation to provide
or pay for services provided to a handicapped person.
(2) Transportation. If a recipient places a handicapped person or refers such person for aid, benefits, or services not operated
or provided by the recipient as its means of carrying out the requirements of this subpart, the recipient shall ensure that adequate
transportation to and from the aid, benefits, or services is provided at no greater cost than would be incurred by the person or
his or her parents or guardian if the person were placed in the aid, benefits, or services operated by the recipient.
(3) Residential placement. If a public or private residential placement is necessary to provide a free appropriate public

education to a handicapped person because of his or her handicap, the placement, including non‑medical care and room and
board, shall be provided at no cost to the person or his or her parents or guardian.
(4) Placement of handicapped persons by parents. If a recipient has made available, in conformance with the requirements of
this section and 104.34, a free appropriate public education to a handicapped person and the person's parents or guardian
choose to place the person in a private school, the recipient is not required to pay for the person's education in the private
school. Disagreements between a parent or guardian and a recipient regarding whether the recipient has made a free appropriate
public education available or otherwise regarding the question of financial responsibility are subject to the due process
procedures of 104.36.
(d) Compliance. A recipient may not exclude any qualified handicapped person from a public elementary or secondary
education after the effective date of this part. A recipient that is not, on the effective date of this regulation, in full compliance with
the other requirements of the preceding paragraphs of this section shall meet such requirements at the earliest practicable time
and in no event later than September 1, 1978.
104.34 Educational setting.
(a) Academic setting. A recipient to which this subpart applies shall educate, or shall provide for the education of, each qualified
handicapped person in its jurisdiction with persons who are not handicapped to the maximum extent appropriate to the needs of
the handicapped person. A recipient shall place a handicapped person in the regular educational environment operated by the
recipient unless it is demonstrated by the recipient that the education of the person in the regular environment with the use of
supplementary aids and services cannot be achieved satisfactorily. Whenever a recipient places a person in a setting other than
the regular educational environment pursuant to this paragraph, it shall take into account the proximity of the alternate setting to
the person's home.
(b) Nonacademic settings. In providing or arranging for the provision of nonacademic and extracurricular services and
activities, including meals, recess periods, and the services and activities set forth in 104.37(a)(2), a recipient shall ensure that
handicapped persons participate with nonhandicapped persons in such activities and services to the maximum extent appropriate
to the needs of the handicapped person in question.
(c) Comparable facilities. If a recipient, in compliance with paragraph (a) of this section, operates a facility that is identifiable as
being for handicapped persons, the recipient shall ensure that the facility and the services and activities provided therein are
comparable to the other facilities, services, and activities of the recipient.
104.35 Evaluation and placement.
(a) Preplacement evaluation. A recipient that operates a public elementary or secondary education program or activity shall
conduct an evaluation in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section of any person who, because of
handicap, needs or is believed to need special education or related services before taking any action with respect to the initial
placement of the person in regular or special education and any subsequent significant change in placement.
(b) Evaluation procedures. A recipient to which this subpart applies shall establish standards and procedures for the evaluation
and placement of persons who, because of handicap, need or are believed to need special education or related services which
ensure that:
(1) Tests and other evaluation materials have been validated for the specific purpose for which they are used and are
administered by trained personnel in conformance with the instructions provided by their producer;
(2) Tests and other evaluation materials include those tailored to assess specific areas of educational need and not merely those
which are designed to provide a single general intelligence quotient; and
(3) Tests are selected and administered so as best to ensure that, when a test is administered to a student with impaired sensory,
manual, or speaking skills, the test results accurately reflect the student's aptitude or achievement level or whatever other factor
the test purports to measure, rather than reflecting the student's impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills (except where those

skills are the factors that the test purports to measure).
(c) Placement procedures. In interpreting evaluation data and in making placement decisions, a recipient shall (1) draw upon
information from a variety of sources, including aptitude and achievement tests, teacher recommendations, physical condition,
social or cultural background, and adaptive behavior, (2) establish procedures to ensure that information obtained from all such
sources is documented and carefully considered, (3) ensure that the placement decision is made by a group of persons, including
persons knowledgeable about the child, the meaning of the evaluation data, and the placement options, and (4) ensure that the
placement decision is made in conformity with 104.34.
(d) Reevaluation. A recipient to which this section applies shall establish procedures, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this
section, for periodic reevaluation of students who have been provided special education and related services. A reevaluation
procedure consistent with the Education for the Handicapped Act is one means of meeting this requirement.
104.36 Procedural safeguards.
A recipient that operates a public elementary or secondary education program or activity shall establish and implement, with
respect to actions regarding the identification, evaluation, or educational placement of persons who, because of handicap, need
or are believed to need special instruction or related services, a system of procedural safeguards that includes notice, an
opportunity for the parents or guardian of the person to examine relevant records, an impartial hearing with opportunity for
participation by the person's parents or guardian and representation by counsel, and a review procedure. Compliance with the
procedural safeguards of section 615 of the Education of the Handicapped Act is one means of meeting this requirement.
104.37 Nonacademic services.
(a) General. (1) A recipient to which this subpart applies shall provide non‑academic and extracurricular services and activities
in such manner as is necessary to afford handicapped students an equal opportunity for participation in such services and
activities.
(2) Nonacademic and extracurricular services and activities may include counseling services, physical recreational athletics,
transportation, health services, recreational activities, special interest groups or clubs sponsored by the recipients, referrals to
agencies which provide assistance to handicapped persons, and employment of students, including both employment by the
recipient and assistance in making available outside employment.
(b) Counseling services. A recipient to which this subpart applies that provides personal, academic, or vocational counseling,
guidance, or placement services to its students shall provide these services without discrimination on the basis of handicap. The
recipient shall ensure that qualified handicapped students are not counseled toward more restrictive career objectives than are
nonhandicapped students with similar interests and abilities.
(c) Physical education and athletics. (1) In providing physical education courses and athletics and similar aid, benefits, or
services to any of its students, a recipient to which this subpart applies may not discriminate on the basis of handicap. A recipient
that offers physical education courses or that operates or sponsors interscholastic, club, or intramural athletics shall provide to
qualified handicapped students an equal opportunity for participation.
(2) A recipient may offer to handicapped students physical education and athletic activities that are separate or different from
those offered to nonhandicapped students only if separation or differentiation is consistent with the requirements of 104.34 and
only if no qualified handicapped student is denied the opportunity to compete for teams or to participate in courses that are not
separate or different.
104.38 Preschool and adult education.
A recipient to which this subpart applies that provides preschool education or day care or adult education may not, on the basis
of handicap, exclude qualified handicapped persons and shall take into account the needs of such persons in determining the aid,
benefits, or services to be provided.

104.39 Private education.
(a) A recipient that provides private elementary or secondary education may not, on the basis of handicap, exclude a qualified
handicapped person if the person can, with minor adjustments, be provided an appropriate education, as defined in 104.33(b)
(1), within that recipients program or activity.
(b) A recipient to which this section applies may not charge more for the provision of an appropriate education to handicapped
persons than to nonhandicapped persons except to the extent that any additional charge is justified by a substantial increase in
cost to the recipient.
(c) A recipient to which this section applies that provides special education shall do so in accordance with the provisions of
104.35 and 104.36. Each recipient to which this section applies is subject to the provisions of 104.34, 104.37, and 104.38.
Subpart E -- Postsecondary Education
104.41 Application of this subpart.
Subpart E applies to postsecondary education programs or activities, including postsecondary vocational education programs or
activities, that receive Federal financial assistance and to recipients that operate, or that receive Federal financial assistance for
the operation of, such programs or activities.
104.42 Admissions and recruitment.
(a) General. Qualified handicapped persons may not, on the basis of handicap, be denied admission or be subjected to
discrimination in admission or recruitment by a recipient to which this subpart applies.
(b) Admissions. In administering its admission policies, a recipient to which this subpart applies:
(1) May not apply limitations upon the number or proportion of handicapped persons who may be admitted;
(2) May not make use of any test or criterion for admission that has a disproportionate, adverse effect on handicapped persons
or any class of handicapped persons unless (i) the test or criterion, as used by the recipient, has been validated as a predictor of
success in the education program or activity in question and (ii) alternate tests or criteria that have a less disproportionate,
adverse effect are not shown by the Assistant Secretary to be available.
(3) Shall assure itself that (i) admissions tests are selected and administered so as best to ensure that, when a test is administered
to an applicant who has a handicap that impairs sensory, manual, or speaking skills, the test results accurately reflect the
applicant's aptitude or achievement level or whatever other factor the test purports to measure, rather than reflecting the
applicant's impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills (except where those skills are the factors that the test purports to
measure); (ii) admissions tests that are designed for persons with impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills are offered as
often and in as timely a manner as are other admissions tests; and (iii) admissions tests are administered in facilities that, on the
whole, are accessible to handicapped persons; and
(4) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, may not make preadmission inquiry as to whether an applicant for
admission is a handicapped person but, after admission, may make inquiries on a confidential basis as to handicaps that may
require accommodation.
(c) Preadmission inquiry exception. When a recipient is taking remedial action to correct the effects of past discrimination
pursuant to 104.6(a) or when a recipient is taking voluntary action to overcome the effects of conditions that resulted in limited
participation in its federally assisted program or activity pursuant to 104.6(b), the recipient may invite applicants for admission to
indicate whether and to what extent they are handicapped, Provided, That:
(1) The recipient states clearly on any written questionnaire used for this purpose or makes clear orally if no written questionnaire
is used that the information requested is intended for use solely in connection with its remedial action obligations or its voluntary
action efforts; and

(2) The recipient states clearly that the information is being requested on a voluntary basis, that it will be kept confidential, that
refusal to provide it will not subject the applicant to any adverse treatment, and that it will be used only in accordance with this
part.
(d) Validity studies. For the purpose of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a recipient may base prediction equations on first year
grades, but shall conduct periodic validity studies against the criterion of overall success in the education program or activity in
question in order to monitor the general validity of the test scores.
104.43 Treatment of students; general.
(a) No qualified handicapped student shall, on the basis of handicap, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of,
or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any academic, research, occupational training, housing, health insurance,
counseling, financial aid, physical education, athletics, recreation, transportation, other extracurricular, or other postsecondary
education aid, benefits, or services to which this subpart applies.
(b) A recipient to which this subpart applies that considers participation by students in education programs or activities not
operated wholly by the recipient as part of, or equivalent to, and education program or activity operated by the recipient shall
assure itself that the other education program or activity, as a whole, provides an equal opportunity for the participation of
qualified handicapped persons.
(c) A recipient to which this subpart applies may not, on the basis of handicap, exclude any qualified handicapped student from
any course, course of study, or other part of its education program or activity.
(d) A recipient to which this subpart applies shall operate its program or activity in the most integrated setting appropriate.
104.44 Academic adjustments.
(a) Academic requirements. A recipient to which this subpart applies shall make such modifications to its academic
requirements as are necessary to ensure that such requirements do not discriminate or have the effect of discriminating, on the
basis of handicap, against a qualified handicapped applicant or student. Academic requirements that the recipient can
demonstrate are essential to the instruction being pursued by such student or to any directly related licensing requirement will not
be regarded as discriminatory within the meaning of this section. Modifications may include changes in the length of time
permitted for the completion of degree requirements, substitution of specific courses required for the completion of degree
requirements, and adaptation of the manner in which specific courses are conducted.
(b) Other rules. A recipient to which this subpart applies may not impose upon handicapped students other rules, such as the
prohibition of tape recorders in classrooms or of dog guides in campus buildings, that have the effect of limiting the participation
of handicapped students in the recipient's education program or activity.
(c) Course examinations. In its course examinations or other procedures for evaluating students' academic achievement, a
recipient to which this subpart applies shall provide such methods for evaluating the achievement of students who have a
handicap that impairs sensory, manual, or speaking skills as will best ensure that the results of the evaluation represents the
student's achievement in the course, rather than reflecting the student's impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills (except
where such skills are the factors that the test purports to measure).
(d) Auxiliary aids. (1) A recipient to which this subpart applies shall take such steps as are necessary to ensure that no
handicapped student is denied the benefits of, excluded from participation in, or otherwise subjected to discrimination because of
the absence of educational auxiliary aids for students with impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills.
(2) Auxiliary aids may include taped texts, interpreters or other effective methods of making orally delivered materials available
to students with hearing impairments, readers in libraries for students with visual impairments, classroom equipment adapted for
use by students with manual impairments, and other similar services and actions. Recipients need not provide attendants,
individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices or services of a personal nature.

104.45 Housing.
(a) Housing provided by the recipient. A recipient that provides housing to its nonhandicapped students shall provide
comparable, convenient, and accessible housing to handicapped students at the same cost as to others. At the end of the
transition period provided for in subpart C, such housing shall be available in sufficient quantity and variety so that the scope of
handicapped students' choice of living accommodations is, as a whole, comparable to that of nonhandicapped students.
(b) Other housing. A recipient that assists any agency, organization, or person in making housing available to any of its students
shall take such action as may be necessary to assure itself that such housing is, as a whole, made available in a manner that does
not result in discrimination on the basis of handicap.
104.46 Financial and employment assistance to students.
(a) Provision of financial assistance. (1) In providing financial assistance to qualified handicapped persons, a recipient to
which this subpart applies may not,
(i) On the basis of handicap, provide less assistance than is provided to nonhandicapped persons, limit eligibility for assistance,
or otherwise discriminate or
(ii) Assist any entity or person that provides assistance to any of the recipient's students in a manner that discriminates against
qualified handicapped persons on the basis of handicap.
(2) A recipient may administer or assist in the administration of scholarships, fellowships, or other forms of financial assistance
established under wills, trusts, bequests, or similar legal instruments that require awards to be made on the basis of factors that
discriminate or have the effect of discriminating on the basis of handicap only if the overall effect of the award of scholarships,
fellowships, and other forms of financial assistance is not discriminatory on the basis of handicap.
(b) Assistance in making available outside employment. A recipient that assists any agency, organization, or person in
providing employment opportunities to any of its students shall assure itself that such employment opportunities, as a whole, are
made available in a manner that would not violate subpart B if they were provided by the recipient.
(c) Employment of students by recipients. A recipient that employs any of its students may not do so in a manner that violates
subpart B.
104.47 Nonacademic services.
(a) Physical education and athletics. (1) In providing physical education courses and athletics and similar aid, benefits, or
services to any of its students, a recipient to which this subpart applies may not disacriminate on the basis of handicap. A
recipient that offers physical education courses or that operates or sponsors intercollegiate, club, or intramural athletics shall
provide to qualified handicapped students an equal opportunity for participation in these activities.
(2) A recipient may offer to handicapped students physical education and athletic activities that are separate or different only if
separation or differentiation is consistent with the requirements of 104.43(d) and only if no qualified handicapped student is
denied the opportunity to compete for teams or to participate in courses that are not separate or different.
(b) Counseling and placement services. A recipient to which this subpart applies that provides personal, academic, or
vocational counseling, guidance, or placement services to its students shall provide these services without discrimination on the
basis of handicap. The recipient shall ensure that qualified handicapped students are not counseled toward more restrictive
career objectives than are nonhandicapped students with similar interests and abilities. This requirement does not preclude a
recipient from providing factual information about licensing and certification requirements that may present obstacles to
handicapped persons in their pursuit of particular careers.
(c) Social organizations. A recipient that provides significant assistance to fraternities, sororities, or similar organizations shall
assure itself that the membership practices of such organizations do not permit discrimination otherwise prohibited by this

subpart.
Subpart F -- Health, Welfare, and Social Services
104.51 Application of this subpart.
Subpart F applies to health, welfare, and other social service programs or activities that receive Federal financial assistance and
to recipients that operate, or that receive Federal financial assistance for the operation of, such programs or activities.
104.52 Health, welfare, and other social services.
(a) General. In providing health, welfare, or other social services or benefits, a recipient may not, on the basis of handicap:
(1) Deny a qualified handicapped person these benefits or services;
(2) Afford a qualified handicapped person an opportunity to receive benefits or services that is not equal to that offered
nonhandicapped persons;
(3) Provide a qualified handicapped person with benefits or services that are not as effective (as defined in 104.4(b)) as the
benefits or services provided to others;
(4) Provide benefits or services in a manner that limits or has the effect of limiting the participation of qualified handicapped
persons; or
(5) Provide different or separate benefits or services to handicapped persons except where necessary to provide qualified
handicapped persons with benefits and services that are as effective as those provided to others.
(b) Notice. A recipient that provides notice concerning benefits or services or written material concerning waivers of rights or
consent to treatment shall take such steps as are necessary to ensure that qualified handicapped persons, including those with
impaired sensory or speaking skills, are not denied effective notice because of their handicap.
(c) Emergency treatment for the hearing impaired. A recipient hospital that provides health services or benefits shall establish
a procedure for effective communication with persons with impaired hearing for the purpose of providing emergency health care.
(d) Auxiliary aids. (1) A recipient to which this subpart applies that employs fifteen or more persons shall provide appropriate
auxiliary aids to persons with impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills, where necessary to afford such persons an equal
opportunity to benefit from the service in question.
(2) The Assistant Secretary may require recipients with fewer than fifteen employees to provide auxiliary aids where the
provision of aids would not significantly impair the ability of the recipient to provide its benefits or services.
(3) For the purpose of this paragraph, auxiliary aids may include brailled and taped material, interpreters, and other aids for
persons with impaired hearing or vision.
104.53 Drug and alcohol addicts.
A recipient to which this subpart applies that operates a general hospital or outpatient facility may not discriminate in admission
or treatment against a drug or alcohol abuser or alcoholic who is suffering from a medical condition, because of the person's drug
or alcohol abuse or alcoholism.
104.54 Education of institutionalized persons.
A recipient to which this subpart applies and that operates or supervises a program or activity that provides aid, benefits or
services for persons who are institutionalized because of handicap shall ensure that each qualified handicapped person, as
defined in 104.3(k)(2), in its program or activity is provided an appropriate education, as defined in 104.33(b). Nothing in this

section shall be interpreted as altering in any way the obligations of recipients under subpart D.
Subpart G -- Procedures
104.61 Procedures.
The procedural provisions applicable to title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 apply to this part. These procedures are found in
100.6‑100.10 and part 101 of this title.

