ARTICLE 6. Administrative.
Section 1. There shall be elected, by the voters of the state, a Secretary, an Auditor and a Treasurer of State, who shall, severally, hold their offices for four years. They shall perform such duties as may be enjoined by law; and no person shall be eligible to either of said offices, more than eight years in any period of twelve years. (History: As Amended November 3, 1970)
Section 2. (a) There shall be elected, in each county by the voters thereof, at the time of holding general elections, a Clerk of the Circuit Court, Auditor, Recorder, Treasurer, Sheriff, Coroner, and Surveyor, who shall, severally, hold their offices for four years.
(b) The General Assemblymayprovide bylaw for uniform dates for beginning the terms of the county officials listed in subsection (a). If the General Assembly enacts a law to provide a uniform date for beginning the terms of a county official listed in subsection (a), the General Assembly may provide that the term of each county official initially elected after enactment of the law to provide the uniform date for beginning the terms of the county official is for less than four years in order to establish a uniform schedule of dates for the beginning of terms for the office. However, after the initial election for each office, the term for that office shall be for four years.
(c) No person shall be eligible to the office of Clerk, Auditor, Recorder, Treasurer, Sheriff, or Coroner more than eight years in any period of twelve years.
(History: As Amended November 4, 1952; November 6, 1984; November 2, 2004).
Section 3. Such other county and township officers as may be necessary, shall be elected, or appointed, in such manner as may be prescribed by law.
Section 4. No person shall be elected, or appointed, as a county officer, who is not an elector of the county and who has not been an inhabitant of the county one year next preceding his election or appointment.
(History: As Amended November 6, 1984)
Section 5. (a) The Governor, and the Secretary, Auditor, and Treasurer of State, shall severally keep the public records, books, and papers, in any manner relating to their respective offices, at the seat of government.
(b) The Governor shall reside at the seat of government. (History: As Amended November 3, 1998)
Section 6. All county, township, and town officers, shall reside within their respective counties, townships, and towns; and shall keep their respective offices at such places therein, and perform such duties, as may be directed by law.

Section 7. All State officers shall, for crime, incapacity, or negligence, be liable tobe removed from office,either by impeachment by the House of Representatives, to be tried by the Senate, or by a joint resolution of the General Assembly; two-thirds of the members elected to each branch voting, in either case, therefor.
Section 8. All State, county, township, and town officers, may be impeached, or removed from office, in such manner as may be prescribed by law.
Section 9. Vacancies in county, township, and town offices,shall be filled in such manner as may be prescribed by law.
Section 10. The General Assembly may confer upon the boards doing county business in the several counties, powers of a local, administrative character.
Section 11.
(Repealed November 6, 1984).

