ARTICLE 2. Suffrage and Election.
Section 1. All elections shall be free and equal.
Section 2. (a) A citizen of the United States who is at least eighteen (18) years of age and who has been a resident of a precinct thirty (30) days immediately preceding an election may vote in that precinct at the election.
(b) A citizen may not be disenfranchised under subsection (a), if the citizen is entitled to vote in a precinct under subsection (c) or federal law.
(c) The General Assembly may provide that a citizen who ceases to be a resident of a precinct before an election may vote in a precinct where the citizen previously resided if, on the date of the election, the citizen's name appears on the registration rolls for the precinct. (History: AsAmended March 14, 1881; September 6, 1921; November 2, 1976; November 6, 1984; November 3, 1998).
Section 3.
(History: Repealed November 3, 1998).
Section 4. No person shall be deemed to have lost his residence in the State, by reason of his absence, either on business of this State or of the United States.
Section 5.
(History: Repealed March 14, 1881).
Section 6. Every person shall be disqualified from holding office, during the term for which he may have been elected, who shall have given or offered a bribe, threat, or reward, to procure his election.
Section 7.
(History: Repealed November 6, 1984).
Section 8. The General Assembly shall have power to deprive of the right of suffrage, and to render ineligible, any person convicted of an infamous crime.
Section 9. No person holding a lucrative office or appointment under the United States or under this State is eligible to a seat in the General Assembly; and no person may hold more than one lucrative office at the same time, except as expressly permitted in this Constitution. Offices in the militia towhich there is attached no annual salary shall not be deemed lucrative.
(History: As Amended November 6, 1984).
Section 10. No person who may hereafter be a collector or holder of public moneys, shall be eligible to any office of trust or profit, until he shall have accounted for, and paid over, according to law, all sums

for which he may be liable.
Section 11. In all cases in which it is provided, that an office shall not be filled by the same person more than a certain number of years continuously, an appointment pro tempore shall not be reckoned a part of that term.
Section 12. In all cases, except treason, felony, and breach of the peace, electors shall be free from arrest, in going to elections, during their attendance there, and in returning from the same.
Section 13. All elections by the People shall be by ballot; and all elections by the General Assembly, or by either branch thereof, shall be viva voce.
Section 14. (a) General elections shall be held on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November.
(b) The General Assembly may provide by law for the election of all judges of courts of general and appellate jurisdiction, by an election to be held for such officers only, at which time no other officer shall be voted for.
(c) The General Assembly shall provide for the registration of all persons entitled to vote.
(History: As Amended March 14, 1881; Amended November 3, 1998).

